Jack Coatar, Alderman ward 7: I can attest that this bill is already having negative economic consequences on the 7th ward. Just the other day I was talking to a commercial property manager, who's trying to get a new bar and restaurant in Metropolitan Square. I won't name this bar and restaurant because negotiations are still going on. That bar and restaurant will not sign that lease until they know what's going to happen with this debate. 

They’re scared. They're not just scared that we’re raising the minimum wage, because quite frankly they're probably not going to have that many people making the current minimum wage working at this establishment. They are scared because the business community is wondering “what are we going to do next?” we’re changing the rules in the middle of the game. What’re we gonna do next? What’s the next regulation we’re gonna take up as a Board? To further put ourselves at a disadvantage against our neighborhoods in St. Louis County.

Now I represent the Downtown Central Business District. We’re competing everyday against Clayton. We’ve got skyrocketing crime. We've got an earnings tax. We’ve got higher taxes on restaurants already. This is just making this that much difficult for us to compete against our neighbors to the west.

I applaud the effort to raise the minimum wage, I think it’s a good idea regionally. I supported the amendment to raise it regionally, I support any effort to raise the minimum wage at the state level, federal level, or even if we can do it in conjunction with St. Louis County, but going it alone, I think is a disastrous idea. It’s mind boggling to me that we’re going to sit here and put ourselves at a further disadvantage as a city.

[Twitter post](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1396280955753619457?s=20)
