6-11-21, Full BOA, Clips
Issues discussed: Hilton Tax Abatement
Full Video: [HERE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VAOxA53-KM0)

Dr. Green NO on Hilton
[HERE](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1403497235564879872?s=20)

Dr. Green 40:39 One of the things that we need to make sure that folks that this body recognizes that there is currently a 20 year property tax abatement on this hotel, and there's four years left on that, that abatement, this is a personal property tax abatement and an abatement on the sales, tax construction supplies, and what I mostly take issue with is the personal personal property tax abatement piece. Because when we're talking about that personal property tax abatement piece, we're talking about updating carpets, and drapes, and, and mini fridges and things like that within these within the hotel rooms. And when the developer spoke at the Port Authority meeting and talked about the this refresh that was going to happen to these hotel rooms, they were asked, you know, how long does a typical refresh, you know, last for, and they said, you know, about eight to 10 years, and, and so what's going to end up happening here is we do this, and then they come forth, in another 10 years, and they asked for another one of these because then it's it's time for another 10 year refresh. And I think that we're giving something, you know, to a major corporation here to do a refresh of their facilities that we do not extend to the average homeowner in our city. We don't extend this courtesy to folks who need to update their own carpets and drapes and refrigerators and, you know, interiors of their homes. 

Bill Stephens NO on Hilton
[HERE](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1403499903192535041?s=20)

Bill Stephens 49:10 You know, even if they're 20 years old, one thing I want to point out that they'll have as amenity is air conditioning, right? That's something that we don't have at City Hall, for example. And as I look at photos of the interior aldermen from the seventh, I mean, we've got marble floors, we have updated lighting, we have all these other things, and I look at these photos. And then I look in my neighborhood, which is one of the most beautiful wards in the entire city. I'm absolutely biased. I cannot present that as fact, but it's true. And I look at my neighbors who are having issues keeping their air on or paying their personal property tax. And I just think that I mean, this is a Hilton alderman from the seventh that we're offering a tax break to and yes, the pandemic was, was insurmountable in some ways and for numerous industries, but As I look at the Proposed resolution, and as I look at these, these photos of the interior, some of which are available on their website, so on so forth. I, I cannot support this, you know, and were it a truly blighted area, I think I could throw my support behind it. 

Marlene Davis, Section 8 / Affordable housing = BLIGHT
[HERE](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1403505066431160320?s=20)

Marlene Davis 55:59 We also know that in in that particular census tract, it meets the indicator of blight because there are large number of affordable units in that area, as well as section eight certificates that have been issued in the area. 

Sweet T NO on Hilton
[HERE](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1403502326707593216?s=20)

Sweet T 54:03 Thank you, Mr. President, and the board. Can you hear me this time? Great. I'd like to rise and I am concerned with this particular abatement and sales tax exemption. The reason is that the Hilton has made over $800 million in the first quarter of this year. And so they strongly have funds to be able to do this in terms of updating the interior of this hotel. So I really am concerned regarding having an abatement again because Hilton has made $800 million this quarter. Thank you.

Tom Oldenburg being Tom Oldenburg and <3 Hilton TIFs
[HERE](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1403508866395037701?s=20)

Tom Oldenburg 1:02:58 I know it's certainly Vogue to make sure that you can put your thumb down around what's been called corporate welfare and an over subsidized business. But I think it's important distinction. If you were basing your vote solely on the fact that you think Hilton is saving pennies as a result of this. It's not it's a risk taker, a real estate developer who owns this piece. And Hilton is simply actually getting money as a result of this. And I can certainly I do want to speak to because it was it was mentioned that the hospitality industry is on the rebound. As someone who's very close to financing, hospitality assets and hotels that couldn't be further from the truth. In fact, hotels can even get debt at the moment right now. Because the outlook is dubious at best. So there needs to be a considerable amount of owner equity that's being put into any hotel facelift and hotel development right now. the hospitality industry is a large creator of jobs. And it is important that we incentivize risk takers, particularly in an industry that is incredibly hard hit

Sharon Tyus asking Jack Coatar about tax abatement
[HERE](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1403736322427265025?s=20)

Sharon Tyus 1:10:06 I guess my question is, but when does it end? When a lot of these I was here when this hotel started, most people weren't. And so we, when we came aboard on these things, they said, well, we're going to do this. And I mean, I want to go back to the 91. When I got here, they would talk about doing all these things so that we would then move on and not continue to keep having to do tax abatement after tax abatement after tax abatement. But that does not seem to be what is working out. When someone gets in distress, or when there's a problem, what seems to be the thing is that, well, let's just go back and find another tax abatement to give to that. So what do you ever envision where that we would say, No, it's too much of a tax abatement in this location and downtown, and maybe you need to look at something else? Or are we always committed to forever in a day to doing tax abatement? Whenever somebody gets in trouble, that we go to the city coffers? And say that well, okay, you're in trouble. And so in order to say this, we're going to find some kind of additional tax abatement, because I guess what I find somewhat disturbing is that they're still in their original 20 year tax abatement with four years left. And I know we let people fail all the time, grandmothers and grandparents and people who can't even pay their taxes, they lose their homes and their properties about not paying their taxes. And but it seems like businesses, and especially and this is not Wall Street, because this is a main street, I look at this more than Main Street, do we ever envision when we say enough is enough, and we've given you 20 year tax abatement, and you're just going to have to make it on your own, or you are going to have to go into your profit margin. Because you I think, the alderwoman from the 19th talk about that. This was not a Hilton. So Hilton profit is not really counted in that. But if you're a venture capitalist, and you're going out buying distressed properties, you do have a profit to you're not buying them to lose money. When do we set? Do you have an any kind of timeline on when we say no, or that's enough is enough? Or isn't that we continue to give tax abatement?

Jack Coatar 1:12:22 Alderwoman it's a good question, you know, I wish I could sit here and say we're in a position with our with a strong core downtown, where, you know, we don't have to, you know, provide incentives and be partners with with these businesses, and that they could do this on their own unfortunately, you know, we're not in that position.


Anne Schweitzer NO on Hilton
[HERE](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1403739882082684932?s=20)

Anne Schweitzer 1:15:52, Thank you so much, Mr. President, members of the board. I-- you know, I've been looking through rockridge capital's website while we've been talking and you know, I'm pretty impressed by the organization that they have, I'm looking at the different different funds, they have seven different funds that they're using to invest in hotels looks like they've put, you know, millions and millions and millions and you know, into these hotels, the fund size goes up to a billion dollars and their funds, the capitalization is at over 5 billion. So it looks to me like these people have some money. And I'm really in favor of investment in our neighborhoods and downtown. But not as much in favor of property tax abatements, especially when there's already one happening here. I am a no on this resolution because of the fact that I'm just not seeing financial need from this company, from what they're putting out about themselves. And, you know, I don't think that there isn't a solution here or some sort of compromise. But as the resolution stands, I am a No, thank you.

