7/13/21, Full BOA, Clips
Issues discussed: BB2, Direct Cash Relief, Unhoused amendments, ARP Funds, Foundry TIF,
Full video:[Here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=L_MhfVA86Qs)

Clip: Cohn introduces BoE amendment
[Here](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1415763100024799238?s=20)

Shane Cohn, 17:34: This is an amendment to update our elections infrastructure, to be prepared in the event of another pandemic, and also be prepared to modernize the way we administer elections in the city of St. Louis. Currently, the board of elections, their equipment is nearly 20 years old. So you know, that is think the alderman from the seventh Ward pointed out in the committee hearing last week, probably older than any of us have any electronic equipment in our houses. And currently. And actually, the board of elections for the city of St. Louis has actually been borrowing equipment to keep operating our elections locally, which is completely unacceptable, especially in times when we do have emergencies that arise or pandemic that we're currently experiencing. One of the examples that was brought up in the conversation that the chair and the President and I had with the Board of Elections last week was even during this, you know, previous elections, we had a situation where a car drove into a polling place. And we had to shut down the polling place and redirect traffic from there. This system that we're evaluating would actually allow people and the board of elections to move our voters around in a more agile function so that they can cast their ballots and be engaged citizens, just as we would like for them to be and so the amendment is for $5 million. roughly about 3 million of that is for the actual capital expenditures themselves. And then there's additional funds that would need be needed for training of staff, volunteers, software enhancements, and IT infrastructure to support the new the new equipment. So the total cost is four, 5 million. 

Clip: Vaccaro being wrong, heads being shook
[Here](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1415766871064956934?s=20)

Joe Vaccaro 31:20: I also have concerns that board of E&A can then change anything or everything that they want. I know the Alderwoman shaking her head no, but I'm saying what I believe, I believe in Mr. President, or if, if someone's here, they can tell me otherwise. But I think when this goes over, they can actually take things out or are have the city attorney to say this. Is that right? Oh, no, I do have concerns about putting this back in. And while I know I see people shaking their heads, no, but I still have the right to voice my opinion. And so that's all I'm doing. All right. 

Clip: Coatar on Severability
NEVER POSTED
Jack Coatar 48:15: as a general rule of thumb, I think several ability clauses are a good thing in legislation. My concern here and I don't remember why it's such a marathon meeting the other day. I don't remember if I offered this amendment or if the President did. But my main concern here is the level of coordination we've we've currently seen between the current administration and some of these outside entities, these legal entities in particular, you know, that the court themselves to be public interest law firms.

I'm worried we can find ourselves in a scenario where they're getting try to use the courts to invalidate you know, the provisions of this law that the Board of Aldermen have put in here that room 200 doesn't like, I mean, I think this is a real fear, we could find ourselves in a scenario where we passed this today with the severability clause, you know, somebody file shoots trying to invalidate you know, various provisions, whether it's the the various economic development zones in the north side or additional funds for police overtime. And the next thing you know, the city is basically consenting to the relief that that these plaintiffs are asking for and the current mayor controls the city councilors office and I think this is a real concern. Maybe that's not their legal strategy and maybe I just gave them that strategy in this meeting, but it's a concern of mine and and the level of trust that I have right now and how negotiations have gone forward in this process and how we The board has been vilified for doing its its its role in a charter city and being the appropriated funds and and the fiscal watchdog. It concerns me so I'm going to vote against the the alderman from the 24th amendments, assuming I have a good connection to do. So. Thank you.


Clip: Dr. Green on Severability
[Here]()

Dr. Megan Green 52:26 I just wanted to address something that I've heard now said twice today that is inaccurate. The federal government will not tell us proactively, that we cannot spend money on something, what we have to do we spend the money, and then submit verification of the expenditures. And so retroactively, the federal government could come back and tell us that we spent money on something that was not an authorized expense, which then means that if we spent money on something that is not authorized, the city is then on the hook to pay that money back. And so we have to recognize that this is a dangerous game of chicken that that potentially could be played here. If we go expending funds that we know or have a good chance are outside of these interim guidelines. And I think we also need to be clear that these are interim guidelines that they are being updated pretty continually until the final rule gets issued in August. And so up until that time, we don't know what the final rule is. And so if we expend funds on something that is not authorized, we will then be in a position of having to pay back potentially 10s of millions of dollars to the federal government, which puts the city in a in a in a financial predicament that we don't necessarily want to be at. And so I just want to make that very clear that this is not a proactive, the federal government tells us in advance of extending these funds, what we can and cannot do that they will tell us after the fact after that we've already spent this money.

Clip: Tyus on Severability
[Here](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1415780598182973441?s=20)

Sharon Tyus 55:23: So the Alderwoman is correct from the 15, toward the other men from the 21st doesn't understand the severability clause. It doesn't give the mayor more power. The mayor already has unfettered power, and that comes from the charter, and it's all a veto. And when she vetoes it, it takes 20 of us to overrule it if she does not believe that she also has a fiduciary duty to make sure that what we are doing our correct, we're checks and balances to one another. Let me tell you some things I did not want to say. So I'm going to say some of the things because I've tried to stay out of this. I'm American veto this and call us back into session. This is the first thing I want you to know. Okay, you can call us back into session with this, just only this and that's all we'll have to deal with. There are some other powers, I will tell you again that the mayor has, this is a good compromise here. People please put this back in here it is don't do the Boogey Man thing because it's just not true. A several bility clause just keeps everything else that we have in place in place. And except for her The only thing that would have to go to court and prove that we are not meeting some kind of lawful agenda. Okay, our lawful law that has been put in place of how this money is spent, you take the severability clause out. If they find one thing, everything goes out of the plan. And we start all over. 

Clip: Davis EandA embarrassing
[Here](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1415769638462443522?s=20)

Marlene Davis 1:04:25: We've had a very embarrassing process take place the last month or so. It is appalling what has happened, the disrespect that has been there and the total total disrespect to the Board of Aldermen not being inclusive, not having the opportunity to appoint people to committees of importance, a number of things and so this is where people are apprehensive at this moment. And also to sit and see na embarrass the entire region. And I mean, literally the region has been paying attention to all of this, and to sit and pass. Well, this believe that a piece of legislation was passed in E&, with a process that does not even exist in order to move forward. So people are concerned, if you're not going to follow the charter, the process of procedures of legislation being moved, and appropriations done, the way that is outlined to be done, there's a lot of question and concern. And so that's the reason why the severability clause was removed. And a lot of people want to support it, because they don't feel like they have any trust. Until they see something better. They're probably going to hold their ground. But I think it's worth us talking a few more minutes to see where you want to be. But many times, we are our own worst enemy. 

Clip: Bill Stephens questioning Jack Coatar on severability
NEVER POSTED

Bill Stephens 1:12:21: Thank you, Mr. President. And thank you, alderman from the seventh. At recent meeting. You stated I believe HUFZ meeting you abstained from the vote on the basis of being an attorney. Correct. 

Jack Coatar: you cut out on me. 

Bill Stephens: Oh, I apologize. I think we're all of us having some connection issues today. So in a recent HUDs meeting, you abstained from a vote due to being an active attorney with with a local law firm, correct?

Coatar: No, guys sit here and ask me a bunch of leading questions. I'm not going to do I won't go through this process with you again, alderman. But I abstained from a bill in HUD recently goes I had a conflict. My firm was involved in the deal.

Stephens: Yes, I just wanted to ask, and I appreciate you humoring me for this this one question. And I apologize for the leading question. But would you and you know, I'm asking just generally, would you ever tell a client to renew severability clause? I mean, it is an added layer of protection, isn't it legally speaking?

Jack Coatar: I mean, I'm not going to get into this line of questioning, I would give advice to clients on a case by case basis. Most of my clients are not municipalities debating, you know, legislation. And in most instances, as I stated in my comments earlier, alderman I think severability clauses are important. I think the situation we have here is the level of trust and the breakdown between the board and the new administration is such that I do believe there'll be active efforts in conjunction with room 200 to strip parts of this bill that they don't like, and I'm not going to support that. 

Stephens: Excellent. Thank you. That's my only question there. But does get to my point? So what we're discussing right now with this amendment is essentially the same, say, a different side of the same coin? We're discussing protection? Correct. That's been my interpretation of it. So on the one hand, we have this amendment to re add a severability clause which allows a faulty part of the bill to be removed if necessary, without putting at stake the rest of the bill. Without it, per an opinion from the city councilor. It would jeopardize the poor bonus entirety and put the city at severe liability. What we're, what we're discussing is either a severability clause or a dead hand strategy from the Soviet Union. I mean, you're not looking to to just protect it. As it's presented. Currently, it would put the city at an incredibly vulnerable position where not only would we have to throw out the entire bill If faulty, it will also ultimately harm the city if we had to pay back any fines that were incorrectly applied or used, that's a dead hand strategy. 

Clip: Tyus on Severability and SAB
[Here](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1415780598182973441?s=20)

Sharon Tyus 1:36:28: I want us to protect all the good work. I do not want us to let that go away all of the work that you all done, which I have not been part of this. I'm all supportive of it. I don't have anything in this bill, I will get the things that I need. But I didn't have anything personally in this bill, except for I absolutely agree that Martin Luther King should be fixed and the quarter. Absolutely real Natural Bridge North ran with florists and whatever. I grew with those things. And then some, but let's not think let's not speak up the ills of North St. Louis without saying who did that this was not this current mayor. That was the previous two mayors, one that served 16 years four terms and did the most harm to North St. Louis along with the president than I ever remember. So let's let's get off of that. What we're talking about is is this a good thing to have in our bill? It absolutely is it does not make any difference about what order it is put in, it is going to protect you. I would not tell you that. If it was not I'd be leading the pack said Don't you dare do that. It does. Somebody is doing Boogeyman politics. And I do understand why people don't feel comfortable. And I will say this publicly for the first time now. So I was uncomfortable. But there was a committee put together that there was not one black single alderman. Okay. I was uncomfortable with that. And I called the mayor's office the next day and said, What is going on here? It didn't have to be me. But I was not happy with that. So let me just say that and there are other things. And I would say that about any Mayor that did that. If you leave out the black alderman then you cannot have a white alderman make decisions for North St. Louis does not represent us and the person who I'm talking about I said it to their face, okay. You do not represent North St. Louis, you do not live here. You do not get to make decisions for my community. This is a joint collaborative effort saying all of that, we still need the severability clause. Okay.

Clip: Howard against direct cash relief
[Here](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1416024316764774401?s=20)

Carol Howard 2;09:54 I feel as though the city may not have the resources to properly vet the people that may be applying for the We have a very mobile population in the city of St. Louis. And I, my concern is that maybe this money would be better spent to incentivize getting vaccinations. We have a very low vaccination rate in the city of St. Louis. You know, we are in the throes, you know, of maybe a new pandemic a new rise in people getting the new strain of the Coronavirus. I don't know that $500 is going to make or break anyone. I mean, we have money set aside for groceries housing, I just think that we need to be more strategic and how this money would be distributed and handled.

Clip: Tyus asking John Collins Muhammad about how soon cash will be
[Here](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1415643558342766592?s=20)

Sharon Tyus 2:30:00 When I saw this petition, this particular amendment and I saw the mayor's proposal, I thought, wouldn't it be great if these two entities could work together? I want to thank the alderman from the 21st. Ward for proposing this. There are some good suggestions in this, this more specific than other than the mayor's. But I do agree with the album from the 19th. Department of Human Services might be able to do some of it, but we need a financial component. I wish that we could have those two entities work together to come up with something. I agree $500. It's not a lot to some people, but it is to a lot of other people. I kind of disagree with Alderwoman from 14 $5 million, It's not a lot of money when we look at it. And I wish it was $10 million. And I wish we were putting an ongoing plan to help more people. If the Mr. President, members of the board, if the alderman from the 21st floor will yield

Lewis Reed: on them from the 21st will yield the question until all the ones in first. All one from the first please proceed.

Sharon Tyus; alderman. So what kind of timeline? And I maybe I missed this what kind of timeline Do you anticipate happening? Because if we if we do send this money over to the Department of Health, I'm sorry, Department of welfare. And so and and you haven't spoken to them? How who is going to get this program up and running? How do you see that happening? And what timeframe?

John Collins-Muhammad: Thank you Alderwoman Tyus, there will be an executive branch function. I don't know we don't control the operations of the executive branch as relates to the administering of programs such as this. There will be between a mayor the Director of Human Services and hopefully the Board of Aldermen will play a role duty committee of health and human services are those special committee at the President may appoint to administer these funds. But hopefully as soon as possible. 

Clip: Pamela Boyd asking Annie Rice about seniors
[Here](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1415644816516567040?s=20)

Pamela Boyd 2:44:30 And we're talking about people's lives. And so yeah, that $500 might pay they rent but then what's next? And that's all I'm saying. You know, I'm just really nervous. I think we need to do a wraparound piece to help people not just pay the rent today. And then what about next month so that's that's where I stand. Thank you. Thank you.

Annie Rice: Which would you mind if I responded to No, it was just me too. Okay, so I would say I highlighted the undocumented immigrants

Pres Reed: all along for me hold for a second, I thought the Alderwoman from 27 said, Did you say no,

Pamela Boyd: no, I said, I don't have problem with her speaking. Go ahead go. The Alderwoman.

Annie Rice:I just took I highlighted that piece, because you know that that is my area of expertise in my, you know, in my former profession with as an immigration attorney. And so that was just a piece that was different in this proposal from the from the mayor's proposal. And so that's why I highlighted that. But I did want to speak to also the bill were built to does include benefits navigators, for seniors and for others who don't. So people who don't have those resources. So we do have other outreach mechanisms in the bill, to try to meet those needs of people. Because I know, it's not just undocumented people that have challenges in finding those documents. We have weird, this package of for Bill Two, has an immense amount of benefits to folks that are available. And this part of that benefits navigators is to help people get to all of the pieces that they need, right. And then this money is designed to stabilize people after the pandemic. And we can use some of it to look forward to the future and hopefully bring people up to a firmer, firmer foundation and then move forward from there. But you know, this is all of this has to be targeted to pandemic related losses. And so that's why we're trying to work within those guidelines of the ARPA funds to meet that specific need. And then use that to you know, maybe it is expanding the programs that we offer or finding less restrictive ways, right ways that don't require people to have to divulge all of that information as well to move forward on. So we're we're trying to bring up the safety net of the government. And this is one of those mechanisms to do that. 

Clip: Jeffrey Boyd asking John Collins-Muhammad about what Direct Cash Relief will help with?
[Here](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1415646075248025601?s=20)

Jeffrey Boyd 2:48:40: As I listened to these cash payments, I'm kind of confused as to what do we exactly use them for? So I'm gonna ask my colleague from the 21st, if he would yield and understand his compromise with the mayor's office, but with that, from the 21st year

Pres. Reed: Alderman from the 21st, will you yield to a question from the alderman from the 22nd.

John Collins Muhammad: Yes.


Jeffrey Boyd: And thank you, alderman. So, give me some examples of how you see these funds being used by the targeted group.

John Collins-Muhammad: Well, I would hope that I will hope that as a resident of my ward, they will take me out for a nice steak dinner. I'm kidding. Of course. Hopefully, they are using this to to make ends meet to pay their bills. Again, I know 500 is not a lot of money. But it can be a determinant factor of whether someone walks into a dark house that walk into a dark house or whether they don't have air, they don't have food on their table or in their refrigerator. I know this will help. In I heard the crowds of my residents on 21st Ward, who said filing dollars will help me Sure they helped me today and it helped me tomorrow. So hopefully they They will make ends meet, and they will make the best utilization of it and do what they need to do to take care of their families in their children if they have. 

Clip: Jeffrey Boyd against Direct Cash Relief “no one dying”
[Here](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1415647332750839815?s=20)

Jeffrey Boyd 2:51:08 This almost just looks like, let's just throw some money out there. It makes some people happy. But we really don't understand the magnitude of the problem. And I guess I just want somebody to present to me, you know, some data on how many people I mean, 10,000, people's seems arbitrary to me. Because we just want to spend, you know, $5 million, you know, 10,000 people is how many people have 500 bucks a piece that we're going to spend it on, and understand people in great need right now. When this first came about it was I was like people, we're going to actually die if we didn't pass this board bill by June 30th. And I haven't heard of anybody actually dying, because we haven't spit, you know, pass this board bill.

Clip: Jeffrey Boyd no urgency
[Here](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1415648087754690570?s=20)

Jeffrey Boyd 2:54:35 I'm not sure we have to do this right away. I don't see the sense of urgency. Of course, I understand. People can use 500. I'm gonna tell you, I don't know anybody who can't use $500. I know money back. They can use $500. But I think it's our responsibility to make sure that we're solving some basic needs food, shelter, All right roof over their head, out of the elements, lights are on. The air is working with 100 degrees outside. Those are major things that I think we should be focusing on. And guess what? It's in the board bill already. So at the risk of sounding kind of mean, this bad man, I was almost as like a, just a slush fund on money to just do government giveaways. And I know that's not the intended purpose. But we haven't done our due diligence,


Clip: Boyd and Rice on Direct Cash Relief
[Here](​​https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1415649849198845960?s=20)

Jeffrey Boyd 3:00:33 So tell me what problem in your mind we're trying to solve with these direct cash payments.

Annie Rice:I think we are trying to keep families from going hungry. I think we're trying to keep utilities on in the heat of the summer. I think we're trying to keep kids in childcare so that their parents can work, I think. Yeah, yeah, there's a whole lot of things that this money can be used for. And I, you know, in some of the places where universal basic income has, and which this is not this is, is the one time cash payments as sort of a buffer there, people generally, who were the most in need are using this on using as on basic needs, not, not frivolous things.

Jeffrey Boyd: So what I heard you say was childcare, utility assistance, rental assistance, you know, which we already have as well. 

Annie Rice: Alderman, I would say add on there, because I, when I asked this question on Twitter, I did get a lot of responses that dealt with medical needs. So I'm paying out of pocket expenses, folks who had family members who were hospitalized due to COVID, or, you know, had time off due to COVID, or funeral expenses. And that's accounted for in the bill as well.

Jeffrey Boyd: Well, I'm willing to jump out there on the limb and say that most people that are impacted by medical bills going COVID are probably people that above 80%, ami poor people, people to engineer, they go to the hospital, they pretty much don't pay, there's a safety net already, you know, for people who can't afford to pay. That's why we have the FDA C's in our communities as well. So a lot of the people are harmed by medical costs are people who are probably above 80%, ami. And those are the people that are left out of this board bill, because they just make too much. But I submit to you that people above a 80% ami are struggling as well. They hurt. And sometimes you don't they are living with a family member to make ends meet. So this is really complicated. 

Clip: Jeffrey Boyd Annie Rice Health and Human Services
[Here](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1415654379240099842?s=20)

Jeffrey Boyd 3:05:18 So I'm just perplexed that you wouldn't support this being in Health and Human Services, I mean, that I'm just perplexed about it.

Annie Rice: Well, so I actually, I think that the the treasurer's office, and specifically, the Office of Financial Empowerment is a really great place to send people through, because they help with budgets, they help with credit scores, they help with getting people banks that aren't banked yet. And those are the types of things that get people back on track.

Jeffrey Boyd: Okay, and you know, what the Health and Human Services office can refer them because we're already paying them $400,000 a year to do that, in that office, you're aware of that right? We fund this new budget board bill number one funds that offers over $400,000, you know that right? Which office? I'm sorry, you took on some financial empowerment. Okay. So they're already charged? Yeah, to do that work. So what if the Health and Human Services Office is already wrapping their arms around those individual couldn't it just like a referral? See, that's what I want to take from the first was talking about how they can collaborate. So you can easily make the report Matter of fact, you shouldn't be mandatory. If you get this money, you should, it should be mandatory that you go to the Office of Financial Empowerment, and complete a class or certificate. Let's see, those are the type of conversations that we need to have all the ones from the eight board over the break. Let's let's talk about breaks right now. And let's have these rich conversations about how we can truly maximize these funds, and really help people.

Annie Rice: Hey, I hear you. And I also remember, you know, thinking back to the HUDs meeting, where you know, we were all talking about folks that we know that are in need in our communities right now. And there may be an opportunity, you know, to continue to, you know, there, maybe we can work on further amendments today are ways to get that collaboration in stone today. Because those needs are only going to get bigger for this summer. And poverty is is not going anywhere, but we need to address it as quickly as possible so that we don't have an even bigger problem on the back end. 

Jeffrey Boyd: And 500 today, or next week, you know, there's next month, these individuals are going to probably continue to have these issues.

Clip: Jeffrey Boyd against Direct Cash Relief
[Here]](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1415657406093164548?s=20)

Jeffrey Boyd 3:08:22 What we have to learn to do is we had to do a match program with them, okay, you got to disconnect those for $600 come up with $300. And we'll give you $300. And guess what, 100% of the time, they came up with that money. But if we just kept giving them a given them, and we were only enabling them, and they were gaming the system, I'm not saying everybody do that, but I can guarantee that all of the 90 knows what I'm talking about, cuz I know she had worked in that space over the years. And see, we are old enough. And some of us, we've been in that community development space. We've seen these movies before. And we could be a voice you know, of good information. I mean, I experience could make this process better. It can make a bill better, it can make your initiative better. I'm just asking that, you know, we just pump the breaks on both of these. And we come back in and put it in the next bill, where it makes sense. And we have buy in from everybody. And that we're not just shoving it down somebody, you know, something in somebody's space right now.

Clip: Ingrassia, $500 impact
[Here](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1415667968755777539?s=20)

Christine Ingrassia 3:16:18 And just want to to address some of the topic points that I've had heard some of my colleagues bring up, I guess, first of all, just because we can't address every single person who is in need in St. Louis doesn't mean that we shouldn't try to make an impact on the lives of those people. 

A little bit different of a program. But humbly, I'll let folks know that when I split up for my partner, and I spent months and months without receiving child support on an Aldermanic salary with three kids, I was able to access a $500 forgive are a $500, no interest loan that allowed me to pay for groceries for an entire month, and I did not have any safety net. And I literally don't know where I would have received that money had I not been able to access that fund. So a one time payment can be incredibly helpful. And then also just wanted to make sure that folks understand that this type of spending has been proven to work in Stockton, California, they gave out gift cards to people like a Visa or MasterCard type card. And they were able to track what people spent money on 37% of people who participated spent money on food 22% spent money on home goods and clothes, and 10% 10% was spent on auto mobile related costs. For those folks who are worrying less than 1% was spent on alcohol or tobacco. And so I think that we we understand that these programs do work and have impact. 

Clip: Vaccaro in favor of Direct Cash Relief
[Here](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1415661173869932546?s=20)

Joe Vaccaro 3:18:54 Yes, thank you, Mr. President. I just want to comment, I am in favor of this as it's presented by the alderman from the 21st. What I get concerned about is whenever you put a political office or an appointed office, in charge of the distribution, that money becomes just like the one we pass the child when we're putting money in for kids going into kindergarten. You know, I also want to put that through the committee. I mean, I pass it through the committee. And when the mayor was running, that was like one of the number one things that she kept touting that she started this. Are you concerned about putting something under a political office? I'm just saying I'm fine with the amendment if it's done by the Department of Human Services, health or do but I do get concerned if if we put it under a political office. You know, why not put it under The Board of Aldermen, why not put it under public safety. So I can put my name on every check that goes out. So I can say, oh, gee, I was the one that made sure you got a check I, you know, I just get concerned about being under a political office. I support the amendment, I support my friend, john, alderman Mohammed with the amendment the way it is.

Clip: Dr. Megan Green defending Direct Cash Relief
[Here](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1415662935729328133?s=20)

Dr. Megan Green 3:28:11: I do think that this is important. You know, during the pandemic, I had some constituents who lost their jobs later in the pandemic. And by the time they went to access rental assistance funds, there was not rental assistance funds for them. And, and something like this could provide a gap for folks that have not been able to access other funds. It can also be that gap funding for people who are transitioning back to the workforce who have been on unemployment and are trying to you know, need to get their their car fixed so that they can get to a job need to have downpayment on childcare. So that they can get their kid a slot so that they can get to work. You know, there's a there's a lot of there's a lot of flexibility that is often needed. And sometimes government programs we try to put people into kind of one size fits all situations when there's a lot of extenuating life circumstances that can make it difficult for folks to fully engage in the workforce. And so I think this is one tool in the toolbox to to help folks make ends meet to fill those gaps. And so I you know, I hope today that we can reach some consensus on this.


Clip: Brandon Bosley against Direct Cash Relief
[Here](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1415672499761606658?s=20)

Brandon Bosley 4:07:25 What do we want out of giving them this money? Which is what these alderman keep asking for? What you're going to spend it on? What are we going to be able to measure? How are we going to know for a million everything going to draw us to get more guns in this city that's gonna shoot up the city worse? How do we know that? Because you could put $4 million out here and I swear to God, if you go out here and give all these encampments with no police protection.

All this money, everybody out here is gonna be on war drugs, just like they weren't doing the pandemic, look at the pandemic and look at how much money wasn't being made. But how much drugs played a role in the deaths.

That's something we'll talk about. You think that's not gonna happen here in the city.
We need to have a way to measure and all these other places has had a way to do it already, obviously ain't done. I'm not saying Health and Human Services can't. I'm not saying anything. But what I'm saying is if you don't put some type of educational component and making people work forward, you got to work for it. And I'm willing to work for it. And I'm going to say, homeless or not, you got homeless people out there right now that don't want to work. I've talked to him.
You got drug addicts, right now that's not looking for treatment. I've talked to him. Some of them already talked to him all none of us have. But those people who won't help them walk up and say, Man, I wanted not willing to go do what it takes to get it. But you've got to have parameters around it. We can't just say give them the money because they deserve it. And they fit within a bracket.

Clip: Dr. Megan Green Vaccine
[Here](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1416004697765335042?s=20)

Dr. Megan Green 5:23:16:  I think this is very important for me and to increase vaccination rates to incentivize vaccination rates. As many of you know, I contracted COVID in December. And I didn't get better. I was sick for a long time. And vaccines can note can not only keep somebody from getting COVID or keep somebody who does get COVID from getting very sick. They're also being found to help people like me, who developed something called long COVID. For months after COVID, and I'm still dealing with this. I am in a category of people who now have something called long COVID where we have symptoms that don't go away. That we have relapses that, you know, quite frankly, I don't know if I will ever be physically back to the way that I was before I contracted this. But what I do know is getting that vaccine put me much closer to how I was before contracted COVID-19 and it has done that for a lot of folks. A lot of people who have who have had COVID who are in that long haul category. When they get their first dose of the vaccine. They get very sick and I was very sick for five days, I could not get out of bed after I got that first shot of the COVID vaccine. But slowly over the next two weeks, I got better, and I got better, and I got better. And over those next few weeks, I got to a point where I almost started to feel like myself again. And I really hope that as a body, we can be working to encourage vaccination, that we recognize that there are a lot of very legitimate reasons for vaccine hesitancy, and that we use our platforms that we have to break down some of the reasons for that hesitancy because it can save lives. 

Clip: Bosley Anti-Vaxx
[Here](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1415780711596965907?s=20)

Brandon Bosley 5:45:10: I just want to say, as we get out here and incentivize things that are going on, in respects to the Coronavirus, most of us haven't spoke, I had the chance to speak or not had the chance, having really talked about the opposite side of that spectrum, because it is a little frightening to tell people how you feel in opposition to certain things because it's, you know, it's real, my father had COVID. It's a real thing people have done and we want people to take it very, very serious. But also know how folks who have taken the vaccination and I've gotten very, very ill, and have found themselves in different positions that they may have not been in, had they not taken it so early. So I'm just as, once again, my community, this is a certain time that we're working on, we haven't tried to incentivize or give out funding for it. But since this is coming up, I have to be myself, I have to be real in my spirit. And what I believe I believe that everybody is working diligently to make sure that this situation is something that we do as a city to save as many lives as possible. But we all do have our opinion. So I myself, I appreciate my community. I've gotten some folks not I've gotten folks vaccinated, but definitely have vaccination drives. But on the flip side of that, man, there's a lot of people that have seen so many different health defects from taking the vaccination. Some vaccinations take years to come up with, we got this thing in a matter of months. I've seen people very, very sick people, okay. And healthy before, and then seeing them very sick afterwards. I don't know if I want to be a person who necessarily votes to say, yeah, we should give people money right now to make them take something that we don't fully understand. 

Clip: Christine Ingrassia / Tyus discussing police
[Here](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1416009720788258820?s=20)

Christine Ingrassia 6:29:54: It's an increase of 2.25. That's in the committee substitute as amended to $5 million to do further work with BHR, which is the behavioral response team to add additional diversion, to open up the program to be operating 24 hours a day, seven days a week, that's not something we're doing right now. And to increase the civilian experts that are responding to calls for service, I will say with the initial $1.4 million that was allocated to the program, I'm pretty impressed with the results. So far. They seem on track with other diversion 911 calls that I've seen happening in other cities. And so I think because of the efficacy that's been indicated in what we're doing, so far, this program deserves some additional funding to make it more comprehensive.

Sharon Tyus: Oh, I'm a big fan of the police. They shown they can't handle when there are problems other than having to shoot first and ask questions later. Okay. So when there's mental health involved, they've not done a good job across the United States. So I'm an advocate of that. My, I guess my further concern, though, would be so when we give all this money, and we get this program going, what happens when we don't have this funds anymore? Then what happens?

Christine Ingrassia: I think that's a great point, one of the allowed expenses under ARPA funding is to pilot programs to determine their efficacy and then allow the city at some point to determine whether or not it's something that we can move forward doing. And with the recent effort in new conversations about our public safety budget, I feel confident that if this is something that's working well for both the police department and residents, that it would make no sense for us not to fund something like this in our budget.


Clip: Jeffrey Boyd against Direct Cash Relief 
[Here](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1415661174839025664?s=20)

Jeffrey Boyd 6:59:15 This is not right on so many levels. I don't know what kind of bonus somebody is gonna get what kind of heroic awards you're gonna get by shoving this through pushing this through. But it's not right. It's not responsible on so many levels. And again, I don't buy into this oh my god the world is gonna end the sky is falling you know people are suffering because we have too many safety nets. Right now. This $500 giveaway is not going to make or break anybody because guess what? The same people the majority of the people that you help with this final check if you gave it to them tomorrow. We're all going to be in the same situation next month. So how many times are we going to reappropriate? These funds. A lot of people that we need to help are mentally ill. And they need those wraparound services, they need somebody to handhold them, they need somebody to uplift them. giving his money away, if you just want to feel good, okay, great. 

Clip: Bosley against direct cash relief
[Here](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1415664948735324163?s=20)

Brandon Bosley 7:23:19 We just gave out millions of dollars to people for getting sick, or for not getting sick. All the issues and problems we're talking about getting rid of people got a stimulus twice, I'm talking three or four times the 500 that we give it out. And we still are shooting each other like we never got that money. And that's not black folks. This everybody kind of every black, white, Asian, you look at stuff that's going on in the Asian communities, they got problems. You look what's going on the Bosnian community, they got problems
black community problems, why community problems, we all been locked up in a house with each other where people who we love to get on our nerves from what
this money is not about us just putting a bandaid for the time being the government did that. 

That's what this that's what the whole federal stimulus was about. Let me give you a bandaid for now. Our job as a city is to create something that has structure for the long term viability of those individuals that we act and those people we're trying to give some type of relief to know you go out and you get $500,500 $5 million to a bunch of and I'm not saying it like this, but it's gonna be what it is, gives you a bunch of dough things you give it to a bunch of people who are not accountable already to their own resources, then we are government. 

There's just as unaccountable as those individuals that we are trying to hold accountable. And it's not fair to expect people to do right with these funds. If we're not giving them the resources, they need to think differently about what these funds can do for them. We got relief right now. rental assistance miniata people's belief out there for your utilities, we got food out the wazoo of your own food, I've been giving out food for an entire year plus never quite works.

Clip: Narayan in favor of Direct Cash Relief
[Here](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1415661174146813952?s=20)

Bret Narayan 7:40:12 I, I just reject the notion that $500 can't be transformational. I know that I've been in a position. I know, I've heard some of my colleagues have been in a position. I know, a lot of us probably have friends and family members in a position or are currently in a position where we just don't have $500 in our savings account. There's a lot of people both in the city and the country as a whole that they don't have those funds right now. And so this $500 it, although it might not seem like a lot of money to to many of us that it would fix a flat tire to get you back to work or license your car so that you don't end up in kind of the the cyclical

Clip: Jeffrey Boyd calling fixing legislation a sucker move
[Here](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1415672500592185345?s=20)

Jeffrey Boyd 7:54:37 what is your motion again please is the motion to change.--

Annie Rice: So only line one of the text of amendment number 11. So section 13. There are hereby appropriated $5 million in the 2021 Coronavirus, local fiscal recovery funds the Department of Human Services. That is the only line that I want to change from Department of Human Service to say the Office of the treasurer 

Jeffrey Boyd: and why

Annie Rice It because that then makes the whole billing agreement because right now there is a discrepancy between the language. So okay.

Jeffrey Boyd: Yeah. Okay, so why don't we just change the discrepancy on the backend of the legislation? Why don't we change? We're in the word talks about the treasurer at the bottom to help the Human Services. Why not do that change? 

Annie Rice: Because it was my impression that that was not the agreement that was reached. 

Jeffrey Boyd: Oh, okay. Well, I'm still not convinced that it should be in the treasurer's office. And I appreciate you know, you trying to clean this up. But that's the sucker move. So, okay, go for that. Sorry.

Clip: Jeffrey Boyd last speech against direct cash relief
[Here](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1415675015152889865?s=20)

Jeffrey Boyd 8:16:53: I still rise in opposition to this amendment. Because it's not right. I know we have this marathon meeting right now. And people have objectives that they want to accomplish. People want to be able to say I got the win in and I got the knockout. But this is not right. And I stand in total opposition of this, we should not be giving out direct payments to people without some expectation that they're going to help themselves. Just government giveaways and enabling people and I get I will go back to the whole theory of, you know, see, we need to teach people how to fish and not just keep giving them fish. And all we're doing is giving people fish right now, we're not teaching them anything, we're not getting anything back on them $5 million, that we're going to appropriate for people to use to do what else because we cannot legislate what they can use the money for. But if we put in there that they have to go to some classes, and they have to empower themselves, then we get to the next level. But I can see what some of my colleagues and I'm trying not to get totally upset, because they have no freaking clue about what it's like to be poor, and live in neighborhoods like that goody two shoes and go get it done. You can pat yourself on the back that you've talked about how you helped us all you want to, but that is not good enough. We need to be empowered, not enabled. And I am diametrically opposed to this amendment period.

Clip: Ingrassia and Boyd discussing County unhoused
NOT POSTED

Jeffrey Boyd 8:13:23 So so that's exciting to hear you say that the county was incredible, with their support. So give me some examples of the incredibility. You know, what was so phenomenal about what the county did to help out with the unhoused population?

Christine Ingrassia: They had beds for COVID positive and COVID exposed unhoused neighbors that we did not have? 

Jeffrey Boyd: And where were they? 

Christine Ingrassia: I don't have a specific location.

Jeffrey Boyd: Why didn't anybody know you've never heard about it in the news. We heard about the current exam, given all these press conferences and briefings about so much going on in St. Louis County, not one time, did I hear him talking about the unhoused? population? So did I miss something?

Chrsistine Ingrassia: I can't speak to what the news media covers and what they don't I know that I've been on calls nearly every Tuesday, the pandemic, with partners from the county and partners from the city and all around, and we know where people were being moved to and being cared for. And that was both here in the city and in the county. And and

Jeffrey Boyd: so the pandemic started, and basically march of 2020, is that correct? 

Christine Ingrassia:That's right, right. Yeah. Okay. 

Jeffrey boyd: And so we were having weekly updates with the previous mayor, about what's going on in the city of St. Louis, and even county data in St. Charles County, and so on. So right? That's correct. And I will on I was on quite a few of those phone calls. And I know you were as well. And not one time, did I hear anything about what the county was doing to support the pandemic and to support the unhoused population? What I heard was, the city basically is not doing enough. So I'm just a little perplexed about, you know, all the phenomenal work that St. Louis County did. And there was no mention of it in the media, nor on any conference call that we had. So why was I just absent on the conference calls where we were alerted about, you know, all the initiatives that St. Louis County was supporting us on as a regional as a region.

Christine Ingrassia: So alderman I, you know, don't want to speak for the previous administration. But when the county is having to step up and fill our gaps this time around, it's not something that an administration normally advertises.

Clip: Ingrassia and Boyd mmmmmm
[Here](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1416012238834606083?s=20)

Jeffrey Boyd 8:52:59 So would you like the major amendment to make it a priority that they go in this geography that you spoke to the previous Mayor about in the sixth board? Would you be willing to ammend here and say, hey, look, I want to allocate

Christine Ingrassia: Absolutely not The wards who are interested in opting out have already done so.

Jeffrey Boyd: But we're not talking about them. We're talking about you. You're the one that said you. you requested the previous Mayor to put it in your ward. And that previous mayor said no. So I'm asking you would you be willing to amend your amendment to make it a priority that the funds go to the sixth Ward? And what neighborhood was that again? Tell us the geography if you don't mind, please. Hey, what would you tell us the geography? Where will you be recommending that they go out?

Christine Ingrassia: It was a place temporarily that would have worked, it's now being developed in tower Grove East. 

Jeffrey Boyd: Oh.

Jeffrey Boyd: Oh, developed? Okay. Well, shame Shame on Mayor Krewson  is all I can say. 

Christine Ingrassia: I'm just saying that the wards who wanted to opt out are already opted out. So let's just if you support Tiny Homes for veterans, then let me increase the funding with this amendment so that we can provide actual Tiny Homes and the support that they need.

Jeffrey Boyd: Okay. Again, I'm not sure if you heard the lesson that I was trying to teach. So let me back up. 

Christine Ingrassia: I'm sure I didn't. 

Clip Ingrassia in defense of unhoused
NOT POSTED

Christine Ingrassia 9:02:41: What we keep doing in the city of St. Louis is chasing these folks around in a really degrading and obnoxious way. from place to place to place I have been on the ground. And again, pardon me for not being as involved in the unhoused situation as I needed to be as an elected official time. But since March of 2020, I have been on the ground, if not daily, weekly, or bi weekly. And these folks don't have the support that they need in order to even try to be successful. And so they just keep setting up their tents or not even sleeping in a tent sleeping outside somewhere. 

I'm not saying that this tiny home village or intentional encampment is going to provide the structure that all of those most vulnerable people need. But it's a huge start that is been well received in over 20 to 30 cities in the United States over the past handful of years. And so I think it's a real missed opportunity for us to not use this funding, especially since we know the huge increase of on house folks due to the pandemic that are not being served well by traditional funding or mechanisms to get folks into housing. It was already in well before the pandemic. And so in concert with having low barrier and no barrier shelters in concert with having permanent supportive housing where we know these folks can move in and be successful. This is a great first step. And again, I will say I'm not asking anyone who's opted out for their awards, even though I don't like it and I don't think it's constitutional. I'm not asking Listen, the amendment for for those wards to be participatory. I'm asking for the wards that are left who have who want to deal with this. To follow me along and follow along best practices and research and fall on the city's continuum of care to do the best we can for our unhoused neighbors.


Clip: Ingrassia “bed time story”
[Here](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1416019535321354243?s=20)

Joe Vaccaro 9:16:34 I would like to a list of all the wards that these will not be going. Can you provide me with the list of all the ones that have opted out?

Christine Ingrassia: You can find that underneath the drive under board built to committee substitute as amended. If you want me to find it for you and read it to you like a bedtime story. I
can 

Joe Vaccaro: I love bedtime stories. 

Christine Ingrassia: Okay, do you want me to sing it to you? Or just 

Joe Vaccaro: you know what? I'm First off, you're being very rude, which is normal. So since you can't answer that question, I would like to make a motion that the 23rd Ward is opted out then. You know, I can't support something that the sponsor can't speak to. So I would like to make a motion that the 23rd board is opted out of this. It's been moved by from 23rd that the 23rd Ward is opted out.

Ingrassia: Second.

Pres Reed: Seconded by all the ones from six. A further discussion. All in favor signify by saying aye. VOTE BEING TAKEN Aye. Aye. I oppose Oh, motion carries.  Okay, now. Please make note of that off the 23rd Ward should be exempt for 

Vaccaro: Oh, no. But I just wanted to be clear. As I'm voting on this, that won't happen. We set the tents up for people are going to just be living like tent villages. These are going to be tiny homes that have would have bathrooms and you know that they're not tents

Ingrassia: Yes, they're not tents, as I indicated just a couple minutes ago when you asked.

Vacarro: Okay, well, that's really all my questions. I'm no, I am sorry that you were so rude as to say, gee, you want me to sing it to you. You want me to tell you a bedtime story? Obviously, you have personal issues. And you know, when you treat people rude. That's unacceptable. But for you, I'll put you in my prayers. You got a lot of issues.

Clip: Boyd trying to shout out all wards ??
[Here](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1416024316764774401?s=20)

Jeffrey boyd 9:50:01 I heard somebody talk about the unhoused, children and family. I'm glad that I've never seen on house family living on the street. I'm fortunate that I have a hope house in my neighborhood, which is a transitional home for mothers with children. And they do a phenomenal job with wraparound services with daycare and everything they can to support those families. So that certainly should be a priority. And I know that has been a priority. You know, women with children, making sure we get them off the street. Because I just when I see, you know, the unhoused on the street, I don't see families, I see individuals. I just want to ask my colleagues, and I don't want to put anybody on the spot, but I want to do a roll call. I want you to raise your hand and shout out your ward. No. alderman Gunther from the Ninth Ward already did he say Hey, bring them to the Ninth Ward. I want to bring them in, put them right in the middle of Sixth Ward, wherever you got to put them. I'm 100%. Forward. But I want to hear from other people. Anybody else? Shout out your ward number. This is a roll call. Shout it out. Eighth ward. 

???: point of order. alderman from the 22nd.

Jeffrey Boyd: Okay, you're right. You're right. I apologize. Mr. President, I'm out of order. I accept it because I can always do a roll call by asking them, every alderman would just yield. Yes. And I don't want to take all that time up to do that. But I'm sure I'm not going to get a lot
of hands. Right. At the end of the day, okay. So I just I mean, I don't get it with their $750,000. that's currently in the board bill. For the unhoused population. There's no real data to support expanding it. I mean, generally, I mean, I just wouldn't have a problem. I don't want them in my I don't want to deal with it. Right now. I'm not saying I don't want to necessarily Mo. I don't want to deal with it right now

Clip: Boyd and Page Biddle House
[Here](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1416019787314987017?s=20)

Jeffrey Boyd 9:53:16 I know, you know, gave some testimony as to you know, how you felt about the amendment and what's wrong with more, but 
I remember your predecessor when they wanted to do Biddle house. She was diametrically opposed. Vemehently, opposed and all of my colleagues that are here right now that was serving with former Alderwoman Tammika Hubbard knows, she fought tooth and nail. Let me ask you, alderman, how is the Biddle house working out in your neighborhood?

James Page: It it is working out in general. Well, and for a number of reasons. 

Jeffrey Boyd: Okay. 

James Page: It is not it's in an industrial area. The closest heavily populated area to it is the McDonald's drive thru. So it is it. I have very few complaints. I've not received any complaints about it from my constituents, but I have to put a but in there. But Biddle houses limited to 120 people 120 beds nightly. Yeah, what is happening recently is that there's a spillover. They have more demands than they have beds. And I've gotten information from constituents that call me some late at night. concerned that people are doing a pop up or unintentional encampment in a city owned or MSD own rain garden area adjacent to one of my gated townhouse communities. So Biddle house itself i have i've never received any issues. 


