
---
layout: post
title: "Tyus Hilton"
categories: speeches
---

Sharon Tyus, Alderwoman ward 1: I guess my question is, but when does it end? When a lot of these I was here when this hotel started, most people weren't. And so we, when we came aboard on these things, they said, well, we're going to do this. And I mean, I want to go back to the 91. When I got here, they would talk about doing all these things so that we would then move on and not continue to keep having to do tax abatement after tax abatement after tax abatement. But that does not seem to be what is working out. 

When someone gets in distress, or when there's a problem, what seems to be the thing is that, well, let's just go back and find another tax abatement to give to that. So what do you ever envision where we would say, “no, it's too much of a tax abatement in this location and downtown, and maybe you need to look at something else?” Or are we always committed to forever and a day to doing tax abatement? 

Whenever somebody gets in trouble, that we go to the city coffers? And say that well, okay, you're in trouble. And so in order to say this, we're going to find some kind of additional tax abatement, because I guess what I find somewhat disturbing is that they're still in their original 20 year tax abatement with four years left. 

And I know we let people fail all the time, grandmothers and grandparents and people who can't even pay their taxes, they lose their homes and their properties about not paying their taxes. And but it seems like businesses, and especially and this is not Wall Street, because this is a main street, I look at this more than Main Street, do we ever envision when we say enough is enough, and we've given you 20 year tax abatement, and you're just going to have to make it on your own, or you are going to have to go into your profit margin. 

Because you-- I think, the Alderwoman from the 19th talked about that. This was not a Hilton. So Hilton profit is not really counted in that. But if you're a venture capitalist, and you're going out buying distressed properties, you do have a profit too. You're not buying them to lose money. When do we set? Do you have any kind of timeline on when we say no, or that's enough is enough? Or isn't that we continue to give tax abatement?

Jack Coatar, Alderman ward 7: Alderwoman it's a good question, you know, I wish I could sit here and say we're in a position with our with a strong core downtown, where, you know, we don't have to, you know, provide incentives and be partners with with these businesses, and that they could do this on their own unfortunately, you know, we're not in that position. 


[TWITTER POST](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1403736322427265025?s=20)



