Annie Rice, Alderwoman ward 8: My concern is that we that we stick to the true intent under the charter, that we in the charter says that we shall meet in person in City Hall unless in case of emergency. And so if we get to the point where we are not in an emergency situation anymore, I agree with the Alderman from the 24th that we're getting close to a point where we owe it to our citizens to be back in person. 

Folks asked me if they can drop things off at city hall for me, or if they, you know, can come by and see us before the meetings, you know, they want to talk to us as well, they want that access to their elected officials. And I think whatever we do, we do with the utmost speed as well. Alderman from the fifth Ward, your analysis of project management, I think is incredibly helpful. But just keeping in mind that, that speed when we're dealing with the public and our work that is in the public sphere, I think is important here, as well. 

So my, my gut is to try to move more quickly than September, that if we were able to pull off a situation like we did for the swearing in day, where we had, you know, key staff in person, but some staff were allowed to stay home, right, we only had vital staff in person and we do need folks to run copies and things like that, as we have amendments that come up. That was a challenge in April. But I think for the majority of the body at least being available for our constituents of those Friday meetings, I think is important. So and then the sooner the better is my instincts there.

[Twitter Post](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1401255809573662724?s=20)
