---
layout: post
title: "6 10 21 ways and means"
categories: speeches
---

6-10-21 Ways and Means Committee
Thu, 6/10 6:06PM • 50:53
SUMMARY KEYWORDS
board, budget, alderman, bill, cuts, committee, president, aldermen, mayor, adopt, question, madam, chairwoman, hearing, powers, additions, funds, received, payne, ways
SPEAKERS
Marlene Davis, 19th ward Alderwoman, Dan Guenther, 9th ward alderman, Lisa Middlebrook, 2nd ward Alderwoman, Heather Navarro, 28th ward Alderwoman, Sharita Rogers, Clerk, Pamela Boyd, 27th Ward Alder, Joe Vaccaro, 23rd ward Alderman, Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman, Paul Payne, Budget Director, Carol Howard, 14th ward Alderwoman, Tom Oldenburg, 16th ward Alderman

[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WO96MS6N_g8](VIDEO LINK)

Marlene Davis, 19th ward Alderwoman  00:04
Just a second. Okay, we're ready to go. Thank you very much. I'd like to call our meeting to order for June 10. The Ways and Means Committee meeting. Madam Clerk, would you please call the roll?

00:33
Ottoman Boyd? Ottoman McMorrow, president of a woman, Howard. President. out a woman Spencer. Odd woman boy. Friends and then Muhammad on my own Mr. President, on a woman the waro. The woman Middlebrook on the woman Evans. Chairwoman Davis, present. President read your seven present you have form.

Marlene Davis, 19th ward Alderwoman  01:14
Thank you very much. We need to approve our minutes from June 9.

Joe Vaccaro, 23rd ward Alderman  01:24
But I'll make the motion to approve the minutes from yesterday June 9 meeting back again.

Marlene Davis, 19th ward Alderwoman  01:31
This been moved a second to approve. Adopt minutes from June 9. Madam Clerk, please call the roll

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  01:39
out in the Boyd automatable. Cora the woman Howard. The woman Spencer out a woman boy

Marlene Davis, 19th ward Alderwoman  02:00
is I am sorry. I'm the man behind it. Own Empire. Alright. The woman Navarro. I want to Middlebrook

Lisa Middlebrook, 2nd ward Alderwoman  02:19
the woman. I'm sorry I for Middlebrooks,

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  02:22
thank you are the woman Evans. Chairwoman Davis? President Reed Aardman Boyd are the one how're I, the one Spencer memahami and alderwoman Davis. I'm sorry, that was Evans out the woman Evan. Ai votes.

Marlene Davis, 19th ward Alderwoman  02:58
So we have adopted our minutes from June 9. The next process that we have to really address here is, as you know, we have had a review from all of the departments that you felt were necessary. We had asked that you forward amendments to the budget director. And if you have it, we will have some discussions. But the first thing that we need to do today is I asked that the our president come before us because board bill one is the actually officially the President's bill. And even though I had my name there as a co sponsor, that's because of being the chair of ways and means. But we never ever ignore a sponsor of a bill. And so president reed, we'd like to hear from you today. And we'd like to see where you are with this bill. And let's have a discussion, sir. So feel free to move forward. Right, thanks. First,

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  04:22
let me just thank each and every one of you so much for all the time that you put in to work through this budget. You know, having served on Ways and Means Committee for many, many years as the alderman of the sixth ward. I enjoyed it but also understood the amount of time commitment you have to make to it versus other committees. So you all have really, really done a good job of wading through this budget. Unfortunately, we find ourselves in a position that I've never experienced before ever in all my years of service is where we have a bill that's before us. That's apparently, you know, in reality an unbalanced budget. So when it passed the board of E and A, we still had the reimbursements in it for federal detainees. But now given fact that that line item is virtually being wiped out in the budget by the administration, we no longer technically have a balanced budget in front of us. So what does that mean to the board of alderman? And I think it's really important that we understand what our options are from where we're sitting right now. You know, under the city's charter, section five dot one four dash zero board of alderman. It outlines the board of our board of alderman  powers as it relates to the city's budget. And it talks about the fact that the board has the power to reduce any item in the proposed appropriation ordinance except for those for the payment of principal payment of interest, the city's debt or meeting any of the city's chartered responsibility ordinance or statutory obligations. But the thing that is the thing that is a deal killer for us is the state law. If you take a close look at the state law in Missouri by statutes, Chapter 67, clearly outlines the fact that that no municipality within the boundaries of the state may adopt or vote on a budget that is unbalanced. So we have we have a requirement by Missouri State law to adopt a to normally adopt a balanced budget. And that's not where we're at today. There are some additional things in Hancock, but that doesn't apply here. But chapter 67, do you want to go to the specific section 67 dot 0.10. And paragraph two, and it says in no event shall the total proposed expenditures from any fund exceed the estimated revenues to be received plus any unencumbered balances? And it goes on to talk further about it. But we are we we must vote on a balanced budget. And we'd have the powers to cut. So what does that mean to the board? We could essentially cut the cut, begin cutting things to make up the five points $7 million, somewhere never in 5.7 million, I think is the new estimate. But I don't think that that is the appropriate place for the board. I don't think that the board should be should  be responsible for figuring out what to cut to make up those differences. Right? I think that that should come from the the entities that that made the decision to to cut that but those budget line items. So in the normal course of action during working through issues of the budget, at this point, the Board of Aldermen would do additions and deletions. You remember when I talked about the St. Louis city charter,section five dot one four dash zero  it get it it gives the powers to the board to reduce any item within the budget in in an appropriations ordinance, except for those things outlined earlier, you know, payment of principal, statutory and ordinance requirements, things of that nature. So so. So once we get to this section in the budget, we would do additions and deletions and reason we do additions and deletions and send it back to the board  of E and A is because when it goes back to the Board of E and A Board of E and A has the power to accept those additions. And also, you know, acknowledge the cuts, right? But the important thing that the Board of E and A would do is say, okay, we accept these additions and these deletions, and we're going to send it back over to the board for to pass back through ways and meet where we're at now. As the bill sponsor, I would recommend Imagine that we hold this bill in committee, what would happen, given we would hold this bill in committee is that the bill that was originally sent over, right would become law, but it would become law and it would not require the board to vote on the board then would enter to use an additional appropriations bill, supplemental approach appropriations bill, with the cuts and any additions and deletions that the board is considering in this additions and deletions section that we're talking about here. Um, you know, we have to have the bill passed out by June 30. It goes into effect July one. And what we would be looking for from, from the administration is acknowledgement, and, you know, some guidance on where they're going to make up this $5.7 million. Now, that does not take away the fact that the board still have additions and deletions that they can, they can put in any additional supplemental appropriations bill when we introduced whatever that new new bill would be. But where we stand now, I'm not comfortable putting the board in a position to, to be to run counter to Missouri State law. I think that would be irresponsible. And again, we're in uncharted territory is I've never seen anything like this before, but but it's the hand we've been dealt. And with that out, answering questions anyone may have. And I may be able to answer a lot of them, but hopefully the budget directors here but directors shouldn't be able to answer themselves also.

Marlene Davis, 19th ward Alderwoman  11:58
Yes. So I did not see Alderman Boyd come in yet. Alderman Vaccaro.

Joe Vaccaro, 23rd ward Alderman  12:07
Hey, I, I had no intention on voting, which I made clear before that, I'm not gonna vote on a budget that overcrowds a prison. All that but, you know, and also, it's unbalanced. But why can't we just send it back to E and A  and tell them look, you sent us a bill, why? Why are we going to let this go in? Like it is, when it should really go back to E and A. Basically saying, look, you sent us an unbalanced bill. Send us a proper appropriate bill before you send it back. Why? Why do we have to let this go into law like it is the

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  12:54
sending it back to you and a does not really expedite anything. Ultimately, again, what would have to happen is a cut, right and the board that that powers of cutting the budget is the Board of Aldermen. So we technically do that. What we are, what we're doing is sending the correspondence back to room 200. Saying that, please identify $5.7 million from from your departments, right? Because all of these departments would be under the mayor's office, from your departments that you would like us to cut. And that would be incorporated in in anything that we're doing moving forward. But that correspondence would come from the mayor's office, because those cuts would be within any of the mayor's departments that $5.7 million, they need to tell us within their departments where they're going to get $5.7 million

Joe Vaccaro, 23rd ward Alderman  13:56
to make up this difference. Okay, I don't disagree, but so they don't send us anything back, they just blow it off. Then this budget goes into effect and

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  14:09
we still can introduce our supplemental program, we can still work through various things it does not it does not does not empower the board or expedite anything by sending it back. Right. That does not that does not advance the ball downfield today, right.

Joe Vaccaro, 23rd ward Alderman  14:37
So how it comes back to the board, I dont plan on voting yes on board door number one in its present form. So let's just say them, doesn't even get the votes. At the end the full meeting on board number ones brought up then the Yeah, right, that goes into effect? I don't know, I know if I'm the administration, I would say, you know, the Board of Aldermen had it, but why did you allow it to go in and feed these things for? No, they have to fix this. And I don't know, I'm uncomfortable.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  15:22
They have to, they have to fix this, we're gonna send them a correspondence that says that, you know, tell us where you would like to cut $5.7 million dollars out of your departments. Right. But But sending the whole bill back to Board of E and A does not empower the board, and does not position the board to really begin to ultimately transform this budget at all. Right? So, right now, there's a $5.7 million hole in the budget. Again, this is unprecedented. But as the bill sponsor, I'm not I'm not comfortable sending it back to na, hoping for them to somehow do something better when it's time. They need to do one thing. And one thing only, they need to send us a lesson, say $5.7 million. This, these departments that we're going to cut $5.7 million dollars. And give us a list of all subparts we're going to cut $5.7 million.

Joe Vaccaro, 23rd ward Alderman  16:36
Okay, well, I just anyway, and I, you know, I can tell you that my plan is that I will be a no vote on the floor.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  16:50
Yeah. And the other thing is, you know, just flesh it out more is. Once that list comes over, it's still under the board's purview to say, Okay, these are the items on that list that we're uncomfortable. So they can send over a list of $8 million worth of things, they say, okay, pick from this $8 million worth of things, or whatever, or they can send our 5.7 with additional, you know, revenue streams or whatever. So, but again, that would still leave the board in a position to make the appropriate moving forward.

Joe Vaccaro, 23rd ward Alderman  17:42
I don't know it seems maybe educate me better later. So I'm the Mayor's office, I send over the thing and I say okay, we'll just cut $5.7 million out of the board of all the men's budget, there you go. That's your cut. You got people.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  18:02
That wouldn't be wise. Because, again, remember, the Board of Aldermen has the power to cut it. Like say about so. So So

Joe Vaccaro, 23rd ward Alderman  18:12
after this passes on the floor, I wouldn't spend

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  18:15
a while if I was the administration, I wouldn't spend a lot of time. You know, at this point, really getting the board of alderman getting more and more stirred up about

Joe Vaccaro, 23rd ward Alderman  18:31
when it goes to the floor?

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  18:32
It Probably wont not even if they if we don't get those cuts. $5.7 million worth of cuts it's not going to the floor we the board cannot take it up. [inaudible] by we can't take it up. You know, we do not have the power under the laws in the state of Missouri to adopt an unbalanced budget. Knowingly. No. I'm not gonna do it. You can. Everybody else can. They want to be at risk of being thrown out of office, I will not be violating state law .

Marlene Davis, 19th ward Alderwoman  19:13
Mr. President and Alderman Vaccaro in the light of other opportunities for other committee people to speak, I am cutting you off. I am also going to ask the question, do you need a response from the budget director at this point?

Joe Vaccaro, 23rd ward Alderman  19:30
Are you asking me? No, I'm fine. I asked mine.

Marlene Davis, 19th ward Alderwoman  19:34
All right. But one of the things you have to remember it can't get to the floor until it's passed out of committee. So that's the first step. But the floor is the second step. So we won't worry about that part just yet. Okay.

Joe Vaccaro, 23rd ward Alderman  19:49
My understanding if we don't pass a budget, it goes into effect the way it's presented. And that's just my understanding, correct me if I'm a president issue,

Marlene Davis, 19th ward Alderwoman  20:00
with you. Yeah.

Joe Vaccaro, 23rd ward Alderman  20:01
So if we do nothing, we don't pass it out of committee it then it's automatically going to become the budget. And then the question I guess I was asking is that we do our due diligence. And, you know, I'm just gonna drop off and just lesson, because I'm just like the President, I am so uncomfortable with this budget 12 years I've been sitting on this thing, this is my 13th. Year and I've never seen anything like this. You know, and, you know, it makes me wonder that who know, so he's he said that when he sent it over, it was a balanced budget. But now it's not a balanced budget. So are we not doing anyway? I guess, because

Marlene Davis, 19th ward Alderwoman  20:52
we're trying to take on someone else's responsibility, sir. And that's not what we're here to talk about. What we're here to talk about is getting the sponsors opinion on his bill, what he wants to do. He is explaining it to us. Okay,

Joe Vaccaro, 23rd ward Alderman  21:07
I'm gonna mute myself. I'm just gonna listen. So.

Marlene Davis, 19th ward Alderwoman  21:12
Thank you. Alderwoman. Howard? Yeah, so

Carol Howard, 14th ward Alderwoman  21:18
just I support your position. President Reed on withdrawing and pushing this back. As you said, as you stated, Missouri law says we cannot pass an unbalanced budget. Now, let me just ask you this. If it would come back to us, and they would find money to fill the deficit, then we would be charged with with the addition subtraction issue. Okay. We want to know,

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  21:51
want to do with that, as opposed to having it incorporate? Right, okay. Cooperate that. Okay, but what if? 

Carol Howard, 14th ward Alderwoman  22:06
Okay, what if they say they found money to fund that, and they're not going to make any cuts? 

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  22:17
Well, we would have to have that those funds verified and open and validated by the budget director. And I guess the other question, the elephant in the room would did these funds magically come from?

Carol Howard, 14th ward Alderwoman  22:34
Well, you know, I guess what I what I'm getting at is, you know, we have this federal money coming out there. But this is, you know, a one time thing. Could that be used? And I guess that's a question for Paul Payne. Could that money be used to make up the deficit in the budget?

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  22:54
I don't know. We have a separate appropriations bill for that more, bill number two for all those federal funds. Those funds will be appropriated through board bill two, and we will bring on board bill two from all of those all that stimulus money.

Carol Howard, 14th ward Alderwoman  23:11
Okay. And then the second question I have you mentioned that we would send this back to to room 200. And then we would craft our own board bill. No. Is that or did I misunderstand?

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  23:31
What we would do is, I'm going to send the correspondence or the committee can send a correspondence. I asked him that they please identify $5.7 million of cuts within their departments that would make up for the deficit that we're now facing. And then less, less assume that that happens two and a half months from now, right? Where the new budget would have gone into effect. Right by saying we're out of time. We then would craft a supplemental appropriations bill that would have additions and deletions and everything else in it right. And then the board will deliberate on that and this committee would get that supplemental appropriations bill. Now, the way if you read the charter, it says that supplemental any supplemental appropriation bills or appropriations bills must be not given but must be authorized by the board of your name, right. That authorization can come at any time. During that process, right, in case of a budget coming on the front end of the month, but it can come when the board bill is introduce, right? As an appropriations bill, right. So then E&A would be able to weigh in. So, E&A, they would still be part of that appropriations. But those items could be part of that. Now, let's say that they give us the information in the next 24 hours, we then make the decision to move forward with the bill and incorporate all of those cuts within the bill. But then that is up to us. That's up to ways means as up to the chairman and the members, right, what we do from there, given the information for but what we're saying right now, is that, given the current state of things, we can no longer with the defecit.

Carol Howard, 14th ward Alderwoman  26:00
I think that's all I have. Thank you very much. I think that's clarified, and I do support your move, take this, and take it off the agenda and move it back to the number 200. Okay, thank you. That's

Marlene Davis, 19th ward Alderwoman  26:13
all. Welcome. Alderwoman Spencer Alderwoman Boy.

Pamela Boyd, 27th Ward Alder  26:30
Yes, thank you, Mr. President for attending. I just I'm, I guess I'm, I guess I'm not confused. But I'm kind of strained. Because what I'm hearing you say is, we can't pass the budget, as it says now, because the deficit, you will have to send it back to the administration to have them find those dollars that's missing. And so do you think that that would, and then it looks like it's gonna delay us being on time for July one for the budget to be enforced? Am I point thinking that?

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  27:15
Yes, you are for we can add additional meetings as needed. If we saw fit to do that, right. Let's say we ended up by getting everything that you need. And you know, this, this committee and others were like, yeah, let's get this done. Let's incorporate these changes, and our additions and deletions. And let's let's move forward with this budget. We can make that decision then. And then the board could have additional sessions to make to, to meet all of our statutory guidelines for adopting new warranties right? To meet the debt to meet that July one time. Okay, thank you.

Marlene Davis, 19th ward Alderwoman  28:03
Thank you, alderman Oldenburg. Thank you,

Tom Oldenburg, 16th ward Alderman  28:11
Madam Chairwoman. Mr. President, or Madam Chair, maybe these these are? This is a question for you. But has there been any communication from the mayor's office? I mean, clearly, they know that this is a problem. I'm just I'm just curious if there's been any communication to the chairwoman of the Ways and Means or the president of the board, who is also a member of E and A as to how they might solution to this problem.

Marlene Davis, 19th ward Alderwoman  28:43
Okay, I had a brief conversation about there's a possibility of some suggestions. But aside from that, the conversations need to be with the bill sponsor. And the committee chair needs to be with the bill sponsor.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  29:06
And so far I have not had any information come to me is how we're going to plug this big, homerun. And with the way it happened, it's just like I said, we are in uncharted territory. budget that has changed so dramatically from the time we stopped

Tom Oldenburg, 16th ward Alderman  29:31
Yeah, I just curious I mean, that's how it's being spun. would be would be very interesting to hear a statement officially made about it. Because it's certainly a problem and quite frankly, reckless. In my opinion, you know, and typically in past administrations, we've had a representative almost attend every every hearing session. I know one from the mayor's office, to my knowledge has been on his on today or has been in any of these past means now. Maybe they're watching but I mean, it would be helpful to have somebody here to maybe provide the members of the Ways and Means Committee, some clarity. But I think that the steps you outlined, Mr. President, are prudent. And I concur with with with that assessment. So I have nothing further. Thank you, Madam

Marlene Davis, 19th ward Alderwoman  30:18
Chair. Thank you. Thank you, alderwoman. Navarro.

Heather Navarro, 28th ward Alderwoman  30:23
Thank you, Madam Chairwoman. And thank you, President Reid. And I'm glad that we have time for this discussion today. And hopeful that there's some conversations happening with the mayor's office, because I'm sure somebody must have when we eliminated that revenue stream, there must have been some discussion about where that was going to be made up, I would hope. And one general question I have, and this is my first time on ways and means. So I apologize that this has been gone over before. You know, it came up in some of our earlier hearings, that you know, we do have another revenue stream through the the parking meters and the parking garages. And that money does not go into the general fund, it does not go to pave streets or you know, any help cover any of that infrastructure. But I do know, in the past, that we have received an allocation from the treasurer's fund, to to help fill gaps is that the conversation? Do you know, is that happening? Or how what is what's the mechanism for that sort of funding to to occur? And is that on the

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  31:27
table? Alderwoman Thank you for bringing that up? Because that has been done in the past? There's, to my knowledge, there hasn't been any of those discussions, at least, to my knowledge, I have not been involved any and no one has raised that as a possibility to me at all whatsoever. But, but thank you for pointing that one out.

Heather Navarro, 28th ward Alderwoman  31:56
So that would essentially need to be initiated in the mayor's office. And I guess the in the parking commission, is that how you would see that happening?

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  32:02
That's exactly right. In the parking technically began with the parking Commission, the mayor's office being part of the parking commission could make a recommendation to the parking commission, and then they would have been meeting for the party commission. Okay, well, well,

Heather Navarro, 28th ward Alderwoman  32:21
thank you. And I am hopeful that some out of the box creative thinking will will take place so that we can move forward because I know none of us want to see any cuts made to this already. Very, very lean budget. So thank you. Great people.

Marlene Davis, 19th ward Alderwoman  32:35
No more question. Thank you. alderwoman Middlebrook? Thank you, Madam

Lisa Middlebrook, 2nd ward Alderwoman  32:41
Chairwoman. Um, thank you prisoner re for being here. I appreciate your thorough explanation and your stance on this bill, and I support this move. So thank you.

Marlene Davis, 19th ward Alderwoman  32:54
Thank you so much. alderwoman, Evans keeps going? No, she's not. So we're at the end of the committee. Comments, and I I'll give my brief comment. Mr. President, there is there is a lot of concern on my part. Okay. And I am just going to remind myself and remind the committee that this is your bill. Okay. And before the media or anybody else gets involved with a lot of nonsense. Board bill number one is the President's board bill always is and it comes to the Ways and Means Committee. I am the committee chair, which means I sit here, I actually conduct a committee hearing. I also follow the lead of those who are actually a part of the decision making of the budget, which means and and he has been so lockout dilligent is the budget director, Paul Payne was always been here to ask questions, and has always been extremely responsible in preparing our budgets for us based on what he has received from the various departments. It's unfortunate that we discovered this in the middle of one of our hearings. And at that point, we identified that the appropriate questions had not been asked in order to understand where funds are received and how they were being spent So we could have really avoided some of this. But that's neither here nor there. I just wanted to clarify, this is your board bill, we will take your lead of advice. Because we don't have any other choice. That's the first thing people need to understand. Because it is your board bill. And then secondly, Mr. President, at this point, could you please share and or as Paul Payne where he is in this budget process right now?

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  35:43
Paul? Paul, are you with us? Yes, you want to give a just a brief update on on current status, where you're on the process. Now.

Paul Payne, Budget Director  36:05
This is just reiterating what I said previously. Obviously, this is something that's obviously unusual that we haven't been through before. But I would hope that the ideal situation would be that there was a solution that is a series of amendments that could be approved within board bill one, before the end of the fiscal year, and by July one that we could incorporate that everyone could get together on and address this, this issue with the lost revenue. And I would hope that they could get together and do that. And I still, I still, that's my recommendation to the board, both to this board and to the Board of E and A that we get that resolved prior to the adoption of the budget. In primarily, just because the budget each year is it's a, again, it's all estimates. And we estimate what these things are. But there's a fiscal discipline about about the budget process, and what we're trying to show that you have got a responsible approach to what how you're going to manage your finances in the beginning right So you accept what those are at the beginning of the fiscal year, you see, you've got a plan. And then as things change during the fiscal year, particularly last year, where there was such a big change with, you know, with COVID, and all that you didn't know where that these things were going. So you adopt as you go along. But the whole premise is that you're adopting a fiscally responsible plan to begin with, and then you adopt and then you change, or you you adopt the changes and as conditions warrant. So, again, I think the recommendation I would make is that we get together and have a, an amendments, or a series of amendments that could address this, this issue before the final adoption aboard the one that both na and this committee could agree to.

Marlene Davis, 19th ward Alderwoman  38:02
Thank you for that. And the only thing I'm gonna add is how critical it is that you work with your department heads, because they are the day to day with the budget. And they can always help you. When you're trying to make decisions. They can't tell you what to do. And I don't think any of them would try, but at least they can give you the accurate information that you can use in order to formulate decisions. But I want to thank you very much for that. I want to go back to the President. Oh, no, not just yet. I need to ask you, Paul, did you have any amendments that have been sent to you yet?

Paul Payne, Budget Director  38:49
Um, I had received a couple of them that I had given back to the alder people who had requested them, but I haven't heard since.

Marlene Davis, 19th ward Alderwoman  39:00
Okay, well, we're in a safe position thus far. Because we really shouldn't even deal with any of those at this point. Until we see where we are. Yeah. So I would just suggest that you continue to work with them. And if we can do something, as far as some adjustments we would, but right now we're at a standstill. So I thank you so much. Mr. President. Madam Chair, so we've heard from our committee members, and I want to make sure before I give you an opportunity to close out. Are there any additional questions that any committee members have, and are any other comments from any of our committee members? And just go right ahead. Um,

Carol Howard, 14th ward Alderwoman  39:57
I just would like to say thank you. Madam Chair for getting through this expeditiously and allowing us the time to try to find the deficit. And hopefully we can come to a reconcile the budget and move forward, move the city forward in a positive direction. And thank you President Reed for being willing to do this. So and withdraw the bill and or withdraw it, but take it over and see if we reconsider it. So I hope that we can come to some conclusions. And and, again, Thank you, Madam Chair for doing this in an expeditious manner. This leaves us the 20 days to come up with a solution for the deficit. Okay. Thank you very much.

Marlene Davis, 19th ward Alderwoman  40:46
Thank you. And I did write down I saw alderwoman Ingrassia and alderman Guenther, please open your mic. If you have something you need to say. Questions to Ask please. No. Thank you. Okay, go right ahead, sir.

Dan Guenther, 9th ward alderman  41:09
All right. Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Mr. President, for being here. from listening through this. I'm I feel like I might be as confused as some of the other members are. And I guess I don't know if this is a question for Mr. President, or for Paul Payne. But seeing is that we do have 20 days left, what is the process for taking a bill in saying instead of just sitting on it for 20 days, to send it back to E and A and to allow them to present us with the $5.7 million in cuts, and then bring it back so that we would be able to have an opportunity to add our additions or subtractions to a final bill? What is the process for that?

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  41:54
The bill does not have to be sent back to EandA for cuts, cuts happen here at the board. If there are additions, then included in that package, we can choose to handle those with the border of alderman, additions and deletions. But cuts happen at the board of alderman  does not exit by things by sending the mail back to the board of alderman, so that the Board of E and A has to schedule a meeting which three weeks to three weeks from now. And then they would have to send it back to ways and means that we do not have time. So we are in a situation where we're $5.7 million short. So we're requesting that list of cuts, adding up to that $5.7 million that we can incorporate in the current bill. So that's where we're at with that as a bill sponsor. And President, I've looked at this time line seven ways from Sunday, and this is the fastest, quickest, most expeditious way to do this and get it done. There's nothing that board of EandA can do right now. This is in the hands of the Board of Aldermen, that's a cut. And that's our charter. thority and responsibility.

Dan Guenther, 9th ward alderman  43:27
Okay, so I understand that, you know, our our ability to cut and instead of So essentially, instead of us taking the $5.7 million and cutting that, instead, you're asking you're sending a letter to room 200 and asking them to send us the list of the cuts that then will be incorporated as a like a force or a committee substitute onto board bill one. It would just be it would just be amendments that. Yeah, and just I mean, I guess we never dealt with this, though. I'm saying in my four years, I feel like we dealt with this last year during COVID when we had a budget that we didn't vote on, and then we just put into place the budget that came out of room 200 without any cuts, or subtractions from the board. So looking at this now with having 20 days left to be able to come up with a fiscally sound budget, like the budget director Payne suggested. I didn't know what the process was to go back to E and A and say we need a bill that identifies these cuts so that we can actually take our job seriously here of being able to approve a final budget. So that's what I was kind of looking for clarity on. So yeah, I know I'm not sure how we get there. Unless the drain the mayor comes out and says here's $5.7 million. Here's how we're gonna balance the budget. Go ahead and vote on it by June 30. So I didn't know if there was another staff to say, Hey, we're returning this, or if it just if we just sit. So

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  45:06
we're not, we're not? Well, first first thing is, this is nothing. This is on precedent where we receive the budget. And a revenue stream has been eliminated from the budget before Ways and Means is taken up. Never ever has this happened. been ever since 1999. I've never seen it. I can guarantee that. And you just heard the budget director say that this is unprecedented. He hasn't seen this, right? This is something unusual that never happens. So we are in uncharted territory, and our powers vested in the board Parliament as the powers cut. So we could technically just start deciding what we're going to cut, we can start, we can eliminate department heads and everything else. That's our power, we have the ability to do that. But we're not, we're saying to what I think would be the best approaches, say back to administration, as a $5.7 million hole in the budget. Please send us the corresponding cuts to make this up. And the timeline is up to administration, they take 20 days to do it, they take 20 days to do it. They take a week to do it and take a week to do it. Right. It is not. That is that is not an indictment on the board because the board has done its job. Right. And hopefully you understand that. Thank you.

Marlene Davis, 19th ward Alderwoman  46:51
Thank you, may I add a comment to that please? I would never, ever even dream of trying to make decisions on cutting to balance this budget. Because I don't know all the priorities that have been put in place from the mayor's office, nor do we have what I consider to be the day to day interaction with the department heads  like the mayor's office. So that's the best place for those decisions to be made. I don't think we should try to do that.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  47:33
Thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair and committee. Again, I'm just so thankful for all the work that you all done at this point. And looking forward to us, somehow working through this and ended up with a budget that everybody will be happy with. I think this is the best, most prudent course of action for the board and that just so thoroughly, and I'm so appreciative of your endorsement and support and forward in this direction. So thank you so much. And thank you. And that's all on 14 said thank you so much here. I like the way you run your committee run the committee like that when I was on it back in the day.

Marlene Davis, 19th ward Alderwoman  48:27
I know sometimes people don't like my strictness, but I think it's important so that everybody is treated fair. The public has clear understanding. And we do meet all the rules and guidelines for the committee. And I'm about to hand you one NASA.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  48:43
No, but I'm saying for people who think that all of them from the 19th District go back and review some of the recordings and Steve Conway. He was moved

Marlene Davis, 19th ward Alderwoman  48:54
tore into him a lot yes i did. Thank you all. I appreciate you. I'm running for president. I want to request that the correspondence that you are going to send to the mayor's office is shared with this committee. Absolutely. Absolutely. Thank you all have a good day. All right, thank you very much. I want to finish our agenda items here. Is there any other discussion that needs to take place? Hearing then, are there any announcements that need to take place? I am going to schedule a regular Ways and Means Committee meeting for next Wednesday, just in case we're ready for some additional action to move forward. Anybody else?

Carol Howard, 14th ward Alderwoman  49:42
I have a question. So you're going to stay with the schedule. And so we're at the ready in case we get if we get something back.

Marlene Davis, 19th ward Alderwoman  49:50
Okay. Sounds good. Okay. And so we had three aldermen to be excused. Is my right. Alderwoman Spencer, alderman Collins Mahamat and other woman edits.

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  50:11
I'm sorry, did alderman Boyd pop in and I didn't say,

Marlene Davis, 19th ward Alderwoman  50:16
Oh, no, he did it. You're right, Ottoman boy. So we shall excuse those ultimate for today. All right. We'll entertain a motion to adjourn, please. So moved. Second Rule the Second. All those in favor? Aye. Opposed? Hearing none, the meeting is adjourned. I thank you all for your time. Thank you.
