---
layout: post
title: "Dr. Green Hilton"
categories: speeches
---

Dr. Megan Green, Alderwoman ward 15: I think one of the things that we need to make sure that folks that this body recognizes that there is currently a 20 year property tax abatement on this hotel, and there's four years left on that, that abatement.

This is a personal property tax abatement and an abatement on the sales, tax construction supplies, and what I mostly take issue with is the personal personal property tax abatement piece. Because when we're talking about that personal property tax abatement piece, we're talking about updating carpets, and drapes, and mini fridges. Things like that within the hotel rooms. 

And when the developer spoke at the Port Authority meeting and talked about the this refresh that was going to happen to these hotel rooms, they were asked, you know, how long does a typical refresh, you know, last for? And they said, you know, about eight to 10 years

So what's going to end up happening here is we do this, and then they come forth, in another 10 years, and they asked for another one of these because then it's time for another 10 year refresh. And I think that we're giving something, you know, to a major corporation here to do a refresh of their facilities that we do not extend to the average homeowner in our city. We don't extend this courtesy to folks who need to update their own carpets and drapes and refrigerators and, you know, interiors of their homes.

[TWITTER POST](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1403497235564879872?s=20)



