
7-13-21 | Board of Alderman | full | BB2, NextDoor Bill, Fou...
Wed, 7/14 12:29PM • 3:00:00
SUMMARY KEYWORDS
amendment, alderman, louis public schools, funds, program, schools, money, put, people, question, individuals, city, board, jobs, vaccination, president, number, process, year, education
SPEAKERS
Shameem Clark-Hubbard, 26th ward Alderwoman 26, Christine Ingrassia, 6th ward Alderwoman, Dan Guenther, Alderman ward 9, James Page, 5th ward Alderman, Jesse Todd, 18th ward Alderman, Marlene Davis, Alderwoman ward 19, Annie Rice, 8th ward Alderwoman, Shane Cohn, 25th ward Alderman, Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman, Dr. Megan Green, 15th ward Alderwoman, Carol Howard, 14th ward Alderwoman, Joe Vaccaro, 23rd ward Alderman, Tina "Sweet T" Pihl, 17th ward Alderwoman, Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman, Anne Schweitzer, 13th Ward Alderwoman, Brandon Bosley, 3rd ward Alderman, Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman, John Collins-Muhammad, 21st Alderman

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  00:00
been reached and other methods.  So tell me what problem in your mind we're trying to solve with these direct systems payments.

Annie Rice, 8th ward Alderwoman  00:09
I think we are trying to keep families from going hungry. I think we're trying to keep utilities on in the heat of the summer. I think we're trying to keep kids in childcare so that their parents can work, I think. Yeah, yeah, there's a whole lot of things that this money can be used for. And I, you know, in some of the places where universal basic income has, and which this is not this is, is the one time cash payments as sort of a buffer there, people generally, who were the most in need are using this on using as on basic needs, not, not frivolous things.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  00:47
So what I heard you say was childcare, utility assistance, rental assistance, you know, which we already have a bucket

Annie Rice, 8th ward Alderwoman  00:56
as well. And men, I would say add on there, because I, when I asked this question on Twitter, I did get a lot of responses that dealt with medical needs. So I'm paying out of pocket expenses, folks who had family members who were hospitalized due to COVID, or, you know, had time off due to COVID, or funeral expenses. And that's accounted for in the bill as well.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  01:14
Well, I'm willing to jump out there on the limb and say that most people that are impacted by medical bills going COVID are probably people that above 80%, ami poor people, people to engineer, they go to the hospital, they pretty much don't pay, there's a safety net already, you know, for people who can't afford to pay. That's why we have the FDA C's in our communities as well. So a lot of the people are harmed by medical costs are people who are probably above 80%, ami. And those are the people that are left out of this board bill, because they just make too much. But I submit to you that people above a 80% ami are struggling as well. They hurt. And sometimes you don't they are living with a family member to make ends meet. So this is really complicated.  It's a really complicated issue that I just I'm not trying to really criticize and down anybody. But we still have a lot of work to do to think this through. I mean, we really do, there are some people who are going to be left out. And when you think about talking about lawsuits and severability calls and all that, I mean, I could imagine that some people will say, hey, look, I want to sue because I deserve some of that funding as well. Because I have basic needs that are not being met. And I don't think too often, that we think about those people who used to have the good jobs, who become homeless. But go back to what all ones were 27 said, you know, you just have too much pride to ask, but you really need that help. And it's hard to know those people are out there. Because we focus on the low hanging fruit, the people that we know are out there 10,000 people, the right cash payment assistance, I just want to know, where are they? You know, where are they? Where did that number come from? It may only be when we do some some real digging into this, it may only be 1000 people, not 10,000 people, I don't know. But we have no reports to justify $5 million, you know, whether it's for the marriage plan, arm, alderman mahatmas plan, which again, I think if it's going to go into any department, it only makes logical sense that certain health and human services, it only makes good sense. That is the entity that is really dealing with these industries on a regular basis. Would you agree? Was that a question? I'm sorry? Yes, it was.

Annie Rice, 8th ward Alderwoman  03:54
And, and some of these things, yes, especially for unhoused neighbors, but not on all of that we have people who've been made more vulnerable by the pandemic than human services has ever come in contact with. And so that's where this this can help meet that gap. And I would say, you know, on medical expenses, even poor people who go to the hospital and who aren't covered by other government programs, will end up getting a bill or could have medication needs that are that are needing to be paid. There. You know, I think it is hard for us to set out each of the different types of situations where this money is being is needed by people. But when I when I put the question out, I got back varied responses people have needs across the board. And this $500 if that is what keeps them afloat right now and keeps them in a home keeps their lights on keeps food on the table, then that's preventing a crisis in the future that we won't have to deal with if we can help them now where they are.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  04:47
So so just logically and I'm just trying to process this logically. If I'm going to give $5 million to somebody to to to help bolster in need There's going to have to be some intake involved in that. I just don't think of a treasurer. I think the treasurer writing a check, you know, sign off on the check. But I don't see the treasurer serving as a mentor to these individuals to get them back on track, I see that most of a social service function.  So I'm just perplexed that you wouldn't support this being in Health and Human Services, I mean, that I'm just perplexed about it.

Annie Rice, 8th ward Alderwoman  05:27
Well, so I actually, I think that the the treasurer's office, and specifically, the Office of Financial Empowerment is a really great place to send people through, because they help with budgets, they help with credit scores, they help with getting people banks that aren't banked yet. And those are the types of things that get people back on track.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  05:44
Okay, and you know, what the Health and Human Services office can refer them because we're already paying them $400,000 a year to do that, in that office, you're aware of that right? We fund this new budget board bill number one funds that offers over $400,000, you know that right? Which office? I'm sorry, you took on some financial empowerment. Okay. So they're already charged? Yeah, to do that work. So what if the Health and Human Services Office is already wrapping their arms around those individual couldn't it just like a referral? See, that's what I want to take from the first was talking about how they can collaborate. So you can easily make the report Matter of fact, you shouldn't be mandatory. If you get this money, you should, it should be mandatory that you go to the Office of Financial Empowerment, and complete a class or certificate. Let's see, those are the type of conversations that we need to have all the ones from the eight board over the break. Let's let's talk about breaks right now. And let's have these rich conversations about how we can truly maximize these funds, and really help people.

Annie Rice, 8th ward Alderwoman  06:48
Hey, I hear you. And I also remember, you know, thinking back to the HUDs meeting, where you know, we were all talking about folks that we know that are in need in our communities right now. And there may be an opportunity, you know, to continue to, you know, there, maybe we can work on further amendments today are ways to get that collaboration in stone today. Because those needs are only going to get bigger for this summer. And poverty is is not going anywhere, but we need to address it as quickly as possible so that we don't have an even bigger problem on the back end.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  07:21
And we'll 500 today, or next week, you know, there's next month, these individuals are going to probably continue to have these issues.  This is a band aid. This is really a government giveaway. You know, we're not fixing a problem right here. And I just I just cannot support this right now. I want to support it. But I want to support it, where I can see what the wraparound services look like, and what benefit the individual because I'll tell you, I used to be an executive director and people came for the utility bills every season. So they wouldn't pay their electric bill until the wintertime. And so the electric bill mega the disconnect knows in the wintertime, because now they need heat.  So you give them money for electric then when the when the cooler heating season is over, when the weather is all within, they'll come with you though, but  What we have to learn to do is we had to do a match program with them, okay, you got to disconnect those for $600 come up with $300. And we'll give you $300. And guess what, 100% of the time, they came up with that money.  But if we just kept giving them a given them, and we were only enabling them, and they were gaming the system, I'm not saying everybody do that, but I can guarantee that all of the 90 knows what I'm talking about, cuz I know she had worked in that space over the years. And see, we are old enough. And some of us, we've been in that community development space. We've seen these movies before. And we could be a voice you know, of good information. I mean, I experience could make this process better. It can make a bill better, it can make your initiative better. I'm just asking that, you know, we just come by breaks on both of these. And we come back in and put it in the next bill, where it makes sense. And we have buy in from everybody. And that we're not just shoving it down somebody, you know, something in somebody's space right now.  So anyway, I've talked along I didn't mean to give you guys that whole sermon. But and I appreciate albums in the eighth and I only went to you because I know what your what your passion is. But I also think I can be helpful. So thank you for yielding. Mr. President.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  09:48
I'm done. All right. Thank you. All the woman from the 13th.

Anne Schweitzer, 13th Ward Alderwoman  09:55
Thank you, Mr. President and members of the board. I really appreciate all the discussion we're having today. There have been a few things that have really stuck out to me when the Alderwoman from the 27th was speaking about, you know, some of us on the board, perhaps not understanding the issue that we're trying to solve. But this time I heard that and really took that to heart. And simultaneously I'm hearing people say, Well, what are they going to spend it on? What are they going to spend it on? And it sort of seems like we're fighting the argument from kind of two different, you know, sides of it. And I feel like this, this money could really be used as a stopgap for any need people might have. The one that might not be met by something else in this board. Belen, and from what I understand from the uses of these funds that this is, this is an approved approve usage, it's listed explicitly in the recovery plan, instructions, that direct cash assistance is something that is acceptable and should be used, then I think there's a way that we could combine or work together to to have sort of meet meet in the middle here, from looking at the amendment that the alderman from the 21st put forward, a lot of it is taken verbatim from what the mayor sent about how the treasurer's office would be handling the funds. So I do think that there is already overlap in what different groups might see as a good way of getting things done. So I would ask if the alderman from the 21st would yield to a question,

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  11:44
although from 21st, will yield the question into all the one from 13. All the men from the 21st? Yes. All ones, the 13th. Please proceed.

Anne Schweitzer, 13th Ward Alderwoman  11:57
Thank you so much. All the men from the 21st thank you for being so thoughtful and trying to find, you know, maybe a more another way to do this, that that might be more something people other people on the board might like to see. And I wonder if you've thought at all about perhaps working with the treasurer's office and the Department of Human Services together as a potential way of making more people happy with what this could be? And if you'd be amenable to an amendment that put those things together? Are you asking me a direct question? Or is that? Yeah, I'm asking if that would be something that you'd be amenable to as the sponsor of this amendment.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  12:44
Yes, I've said that previously, I'm not opposed to oppose to the treasurer playing a role in making sure that the Department of Human Services oversees this program. I'm not opposed to that. But I do believe that the sole responsibility of this program in its implementation should rest and Department of Human Services. And so who I trust, will do a good job, who I know, has the resources and the data needed to make sure that this program is effective.

Anne Schweitzer, 13th Ward Alderwoman  13:14
I have to take a moment to just apologize for my newness to the board here. I do have an amendment that works with the treasurer and the Department of Human Services together to oversee this program. And I need some guidance on what I would say to bring that amendment forward. If this is the right time to do that. If somebody can give me

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  13:34
what what you can do while we're having discussions, if you will send that information to the clerk. So you can get it in its proper form. And then we when we come back to you, you will have an opportunity to introduce your amendment. And hey, make sure before we cut off questioning that we give you an opportunity to bring forth.

Anne Schweitzer, 13th Ward Alderwoman  14:00
So I if I send it right now, I cannot continue talking about it.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  14:07
Boy, you can if you're going to be discussing the amendment, we need to have that. Because if we have that amendment in front of us,

Anne Schweitzer, 13th Ward Alderwoman  14:17
okay, well, it's been sent to the clerk. So should I instead send it to everybody on the board to make it easier to have in front of everybody right away?

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  14:25
Um, you can do that. But for final one that will take up to be the one that the clerk will assure is that it's in the final appropriate form and has an amendment amendment number attached to it. You'll have more confused.

Anne Schweitzer, 13th Ward Alderwoman  14:44
Okay. Yeah, I didn't put it. There's no amendment number on this one. But I can finish to all of my colleagues at this exact moment. If I can just have one second to do that.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  14:54
You have anything further or as we move on, we'll be back to you.

Anne Schweitzer, 13th Ward Alderwoman  15:01
Well, I would love if I saw the floor to bring this amendment forward. Now, you know, I know if we were in person, I'd be able to drop it off at everybody's desks, and then we would keep going with it. So I, I feel the disadvantage of being on zoom at this exact moment. And I'd really like to keep going, if possible.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  15:18
Do you have the amendment in proper form? before? I believe so, Mr. President, and I was. Alright, allow us to come back to you then. Because we have some other speakers. And as I said, we'll come back to you. You know, instead of holding the board up for five or 10 minutes while we wait, so we'll, we'll be back to Alderwoman from the six.

Christine Ingrassia, 6th ward Alderwoman  15:50
Thank you, Mr. President. I just wanted to thank the members of the board, including the alderman from the 21st board to bringing this back to our attention, I think it's an incredible value.  And just want to to address some of the topic points that I've had heard some of my colleagues bring up, I guess, first of all, just because we can't address every single person who is in need in St. Louis doesn't mean that we shouldn't try to make an impact on the lives of those people.  A little bit different of a program. But humbly, I'll let folks know that when I split up for my partner, and I spent months and months without receiving child support on an Aldermanic salary with three kids, I was able to access a $500 forgive are a $500, no interest loan that allowed me to pay for groceries for an entire month, and I did not have any safety net. And I literally don't know where I would have received that money had I not been able to access that fund. So a one time payment can be incredibly helpful. And then also just wanted to make sure that folks understand that this type of spending has been proven to work in Stockton, California, they gave out gift cards to people like a Visa or MasterCard type card. And they were able to track what people spent money on 37% of people who participated spent money on food 22% spent money on home goods and clothes, and 10% 10% was spent on auto mobile related costs. For those folks who are worrying less than 1% was spent on alcohol or tobacco. And so I think that we we understand that these programs do work and have impact.  I also wanted to make sure that everyone was aware, the other woman from the eighth Ward brought up thoughtfully the point in time count that the city does that includes all different types of unhoused individuals and housing insecure individuals. So if I were sleeping on a couch, I'm likely accessing services through a variety of different providers all who participate in the continuum of care. And so those folks are counted. And then there was also a comment brought up about unhoused people just walking up and saying, Hey, I'm in house, I deserve this $500 payment. advocacy organizations regularly provide documentation to Fq a cheese like affinia just to let them know that the person is on housed. And so there's, I think, a way to make that work. And so I'm hoping that we get this updated amendment before us. I think the treasurer's office working with the Health and Human Services Department makes a lot of sense. Thank you so much.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  18:46
I'm alderman from the 23rd.

Joe Vaccaro, 23rd ward Alderman  18:54
Yes, thank you, Mr. President. I just want to comment, I am in favor of this as it's presented by the alderman from the 21st. What I get concerned about is whenever you put a political office or an appointed office, in charge of the distribution, that money becomes just like the one we pass the child when we're putting money in for kids going into kindergarten. You know, I also want to put that through the committee. I mean, I pass it through the committee. And when the mayor was running, that was like one of the number one things that she kept touting that she started this. Are you concerned about putting something under a political office? I'm just saying I'm fine with the amendment if it's done by the Department of Human Services, health or do but I do get concerned if if we put it under a political office. You know, why not put it under The Board of Aldermen, why not put it under public safety. So I can put my name on every check that goes out. So I can say, oh, gee, I was the one that made sure you got a check I, you know, I just get concerned about being under a political office. I support the amendment, I support my friend, john, alderman Mohammed with the amendment the way it is , I think it's important to get the money out. But I do have concerns about putting anything under a political office that can be used in a campaign, and most likely will be used in a campaign. So that's just my concern. So I support the amendment as it is. I don't know that I would support it any other way. And I support my friend. I think he's thought this thing. Yeah, it's been well thought out. And I think it's a way to get it out there have a way to get the money out there. I agree. It's not a lot of money. The fact that it barely scratches, you know, $500 is going to take care of some of these total financial issues and make them home. That would be an amazing thing all by itself. It's just a little bit of a stopgap. So I support it is presented by the alderman in the 21st. But I do have concerns about putting anything under any political office. They don't want the mayor and the President and the board. I don't want the controller. You know, I think that that should be put in someone's hands. It's not running for an election. Why not put it under the president? And then he can go out and say, Gee, I think it was $500 checks out. It just doesn't. I don't think it's politically proper to put it under someone that would use it during a political campaign. That's just my opinion. I support it the way it's under the alderman from the 21st. amendment, as it as it is, I don't think I would support any other amendment that puts anything into a political office that someone can use in their next campaign. And that's all I have to say and then changes I would not support. But I'll support it as it is. Thank you. Alright, thank you.

Jesse Todd, 18th ward Alderman  22:30
Oh, thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you both all the people and the person who was a as a teenager, who was on how the teenager the five hundred, the dollar is very important. It can solve a lot of problems. Ms. A Porter, the treasurer's office, administering this money because they do this on a daily basis. They have they collect parking fees, and many other fees and so they have experienced and it also the the treasurer also has run for office. So if it's not administered proper, there can be a campaign issue. And we know there are more and also the The question is whether or not is going to poor people we know from a backfire effect that there is more unemployment because right here in St. Louis, we had the General Motors company on your unit Natural Bridge, a closed quarter carburetor, Danielle dodi here, and Scotland steel out on man, just just to name a few. So we know there's more unemployment. There. I realize this is not the complete solution. Dr. King. When they a few days before he was assassinated, he went to Memphis to as he stopped bad Memphis as he was getting ready to go to the poor people's campaign. But somebody led to the honorable elected officials also was forgiven. Again, guaranteed annual income those elected officials were the late Senator Hubert Humphrey. And also us representative Augustus Hawkins. They were for guaranteed annual income they were for full employment for those who want who had the ability to work. And they will find guaranteed annual income for those who were unable to work due to mental or physical disability. And the way they were going to do that guaranteed annual income was to expanse massive gestion was since I'm working on poor people's campaign was to expand Social Security. I was very young and I wasn't old enough to vote. But some of this money probably will go to For people who are guardians of children, and other adults, single parents, they can use school as we'll be starting in a few months, this can go for school supplies go most of the kids, when I was educated for many, for more than 30 years, not taught to poor people, in every capacity, including being a principal, what happens is these children, the majority, don't have bookbags school supplies, and many other tools they need to be successful. And in the majority of schools in the St. Louis, public schools were retired. Now, in some schools, there was not they had the lunch and breakfast and lunch program 95% qualified more than 80% qualified, but the reason I'm saying it, this can happen so many different ways. So, again, I just think that that it should be How about a treasurer's office due to their practice every day, this they practice handling money every day? I think we should be having by elected official because we are at they are acid to this purse, the treasurer's office is an asset to the voters they and they had experience. I would rather go with experience. God, we don't have time for somebody to learn how to how money we need. These people don't have it right away. So I think the treasurer's office should handle it. And I and I'm fully 100%. And at Thank you would do a lot of people some good. And thank you, Mr. President, thank you both all the people.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  26:45
Thank you. All the one from the 14th. All the ones for the 14th. I'll come back to her all the one from the 15th.

Dr. Megan Green, 15th ward Alderwoman  27:06
Thank you, Mr. President, members of the board. I won't belabor points here, I first want to thank the alderman from the 21st Ward for bringing this forward. I you know, think that we agree on a lot of things. And I think that there's a healthy compromise here, I agree that the Department of Human Services probably is best equipped to handle figuring out the need. I also think that the treasurer's office is probably best equipped to handle dispersal of funds as they have those systems already set up and, and that would make for the ability to get these funds to people the fastest without having to create a new system. And I think that's something that we all want. And so I'm I'm hoping that within this discussion today, that I think has been a very fruitful and good discussion today, we can find some consensus around that. And, and so that we can can get this program up and running quickly. You know,  I do think that this is important. You know, during the pandemic, I had some constituents who lost their jobs later in the pandemic. And by the time they went to access rental assistance funds, there was not rental assistance funds for them. And, and something like this could provide a gap for folks that have not been able to access other funds. It can also be that gap funding for people who are transitioning back to the workforce who have been on unemployment and are trying to you know, need to get their their car fixed so that they can get to a job need to have downpayment on childcare. So that they can get their kid a slot so that they can get to work. You know, there's a there's a lot of there's a lot of flexibility that is often needed. And sometimes government programs we try to put people into kind of one size fits all situations when there's a lot of extenuating life circumstances that can make it difficult for folks to fully engage in the workforce. And so I think this is one tool in the toolbox to to help folks make ends meet to fill those gaps. And so I you know, I hope today that we can reach some consensus on this. , that we can can, you know, figure out how this is administered, we can get this passed out today instead of, you know, waiting for September because we do have a lot of folks that did have those unemployment benefits cut off rather hastily, who are hurting who do need those car repairs in that childcare care, you know, dollars To be able to get a slot at a childcare facility who do need, who do need that, that support now and kicking the can down the road a couple months, just delays, so much needed support for people that were expecting to have some greater supports than they have right now.  So thanks for bringing this forth. And I appreciate the discussion and hope that we can reach some consensus on this today.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  30:31
alderman from the third. 

Brandon Bosley, 3rd ward Alderman  30:36
Mr. President, for the minutes from the 21st, you have a question. 

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  30:39
On the 23rd. Will you have a question to all the men from the third alderman from the 21st will yield a question from the alderman from the third. Yes, I'm from third, please proceed?

Brandon Bosley, 3rd ward Alderman  30:54
Should I go out? one day at a time? Can you just walk me through just really quick how the process would go through the Human Services process? Someone wanted to come in they think they qualify? I would they go? Are you asking for the application process? I mean, well, I mean, so there's the application. Is that physical? Is it online?

John Collins-Muhammad, 21st Alderman  31:26
It's both 15% 15% of funds has been set aside for paper applications to also help residents because we know not every resident has access to the Wi Fi or has access to a computer. So it gives both options. You can do it online, or you can do it at a particular site in city of St. Louis. So that 15% is for walkups. Yes, for paper applications. Yes. And if so, basically walk up stuff. Yes. So is there a particular reason why it's only 15%? For those particular people that have access to walk up? Says particular reason why it's only 15%. I mean, 15% to print paper applications is not going to be a, again, we only serve as 10,000 10,000 residents. So 15% of $5 million dollars, which will be spent on paper applications.

Brandon Bosley, 3rd ward Alderman  32:27
Right, right. So just if 16% of people don't have cars, vehicles, things like that they walk up and not be able to be involved in the process of applying correct.

John Collins-Muhammad, 21st Alderman  32:43
Um, 50 30% of the revenue will be spent on paper applications. So that could probably service all 10,000 people that's going to apply for this. Of course, not everybody is going to walk up to a site, some people will use their computers, but just in case people don't have that access, or don't have that technology. They can it's just an option.

Brandon Bosley, 3rd ward Alderman  33:08
Right? Absolutely. But, you know, you know, we have posted on of course, people don't have access to internet, things like that. But just the whole reason for this is to make sure that those who do have access to internet, those who don't necessarily have access to walk up, there are some we're playing to both sides and ensuring that people have some access to the resources that we had, correct?

John Collins-Muhammad, 21st Alderman  33:33
Yes, I mean, so automatically, if a person right now was to apply for any type of city assistance, they will have to go to some site to apply for, alright, we came out to my house and do it, you know, well, I'll take them back as us as automated we do it all the time. But it'd be no different with this. If he wanted to drive and go pick up a resident and take them to the department Human Services let's do with if they want to get online to apply for the program. Let's do it. I mean, we we can't necessarily go to the doors and say here you go apply. I mean, they have to make some effort somewhere. So if they don't have transportation, Okay, then let's get in transportation. If they don't have internet access, let's get into one of these site where they can apply. So 15% of the revenue is going to print paper applications. And the rest of it is just for electronic script. No. You see 52 paper and the rest of it is for I don't understand I don't understand your question. 15% will be for paper applications and the other 85% will be for people who apply online. No, the No. So

Brandon Bosley, 3rd ward Alderman  34:51
I mean not 15 15% of the revenue will be for Paper Paper applications that change Yes. All right, I'm just making a clear line between the online application process and the paper process. That's it. So 15% of the process, actually revenue generated from paper and the other 85 will be from online, right?

John Collins-Muhammad, 21st Alderman  35:18
Not necessarily, who knows? I mean, so 100 100% of people who apply, they all could potentially apply using a paper application. Who knows? We I mean, we don't know. But we want to make sure that we guarantee that option, just in case someone doesn't have access to technology.

Brandon Bosley, 3rd ward Alderman  35:35
God, she says there's a guarantee at 15%. Exactly. So, okay, cool. Cool. So the the point I was making is I just wanted to just get some clarification on exactly where it is that we're doing where it is that we've gone. Um, I know that a lot of the discussion is about the unhoused. And me, you yourself, a lot of different individuals on the north side deal with the unhoused a lot. And we also know that there's a lot of people in our community. So on the verge of being on housed, I think what we are all trying to get to a point of some type of understanding where they won't be individuals that are on how receiving the most of these funds, we know that there are people working every single day that our house right now and trying to ensure that when we come in house, and we're just trying to ensure that there is some type of structure to those individuals who will be able to take these resources and make sure that they can utilize them long term. Correct? Mmm. I know, he was asking a question. Sure. Yes, sure. But just know when I guess it wasn't a question. That was a statement. My apologies. Would you agree with that? I would say thank you. Um, so there's been a lot of back and forth about the on house situation in general. How did how many, how much of this fun, do you think in percentiles, with go to the on house to what it is the amendment that you're proposing?

John Collins-Muhammad, 21st Alderman  37:06
I'm not sure. I'm not sure that that will depend on how many, how many unhoused residents actually apply for it that's eligible for is eligible for to receive this cash assistance? I wouldn't know. I mean, we won't know into the program rolls out. And we can we see actual data on what areas are people applying from? Where do they stay where they don't say, I mean, we we won't know. Like, right here, like so this could pass and potentially nobody in the 21st Ward will get the funds, potentially nobody in the Third Ward, we get the funds, like we don't know, is based off the process of department Human Services put in place. And we don't have an idea what that process is right now. No, that process was not laid out in the original proposal. So what my amendment does is straighten up some of the language, put some things in a, in a particular order to clean to clean up this amendment or clamp this proposal. This amendment is making a proposal better.

Brandon Bosley, 3rd ward Alderman  38:08
Right, right. And I actually think that there definitely is some some pros to 100%. My apologies, if you see my screen going on, on and out, I'm getting multiple calls back and forth, my apologies for stopping. So I appreciate that I appreciate them. And I definitely think we all working towards especially being on the north side, making sure these funds go to the right place. A lot of what our opposition is is definitely in line and ensuring that they are utilized correctly. And they go to individuals who are also we know that we all know as a city can utilize these funds in the correct manner that can two or three years down the line, maybe even six months down the line be something that we can analytically, statistically be able to say has helped people and there is some data behind it, which is why you can continue to talk about data because you know how important that is. And every one of us that are talking about this or abilities, even opposition or Ford is just trying to figure out how we can support this or not support it, and ensure that there's data behind what it is that we are spending, there's millions of dollars on the line, and we want to make sure that it goes in the right places. I mean, you both have seen people in our community get funding and spend them completely the wrong way is that might not necessarily wrong in ways that may not benefit residents that we see spending those funds in the long term. Is that something we can agree on? Absolutely. And I think there's things that we are both trying to ensure that doesn't happen with this funding because this is kind of like a one time shot. So I'm not against your amendment, and I want everybody out there to be clear. I'm not against alderman Mohamad autumn board or any individual who has been in some sort of opposition with this because there's a reason to be apprehensive and I can mirrlees is just about in just given out hundreds of dollars, not frivolously, but in ways that right now we don't see a measurable outcome. This is a very, very difficult process. We can give every single person in our communities a million dollars right now when the question would be with the community to be better for a button for it, would you see more drug activity? Would you see more people robbed tomorrow? Would you see more individuals in debt next year? What would happen after those dollars are given out? And that's what we all are trying to figure out? What can we measure a few months from now a year from now. So I appreciate you bringing this amendment to the forefront. One of the things that should have been talked about from the very beginning with the other amendment is that it was brought to conversation by myself and no Well, when other people in the marriage department, we are the individuals who live through the unhoused are more unhoused people who are on the north side, west side and a little bit of the south side. And on the east side, I'm not east side, but the most southern parts of the war, and more privileged parts. And that's just truthful.  So being honest, when we see individuals who are talking about the unhoused, and the issues that exists the round the other house in our communities and telling us what it is we should be doing to give out money to people who could do better, it's a little bit and just to be respectful, everybody's a little bit insulting. We live amongst these people on a regular basis, we know what they're asking for, we know what they can utilize these funds for, we know what people will or may not utilize them for, we just want to be sure that when we give them out as a city, that a year from now that we can say that we've done something substantial to be able to help those 10,000 people and there's something to show for it. So for all those individuals that see us out there talking about this, and going back and forth, we're not against helping our people.  We're not against helping the individuals that are in the city, that's black people, white people, I got poor white people in my ward right now give us $500 right now today, but I also have poor white drug addicts in my area poor white drug addicts, I mean, black drug addicts in my area also, who may miss utilize these funds, if we don't ensure that there is some way that they also can help themselves at the same time, while healing themselves. You can say drugs is this or that. But people also have to live, this pandemic has showed us all that we all can get outside of ourselves, we fought on the toilet tissue. Nobody ever thought that that'd be happening. But people actually fought over that. So when we look at what it is aye needs are, it's about what it is our needs will be today, and how it is 10 years from now, whatever it is we put into the pot can serve a purpose for and we can have some data on what it is that we've changed over the next four or five years leading up to a 10 year, Mark. So I'm not once again asking you questions against you out of them. I am the individual who talked to Noel and other individuals in the mayor's office about the amendment there and the empowerment office. I told them that there is no way and we walked down my blocks. And I want you to know this because there's probably something they didn't talk about and they should have. I text Noel and everybody else and told them you all should have told them. We walked through the hood. We talked to drug addicts, we talked to non drug guys, we talked to people and asked them realistically what were $500 do for you today. Some of them actually were realistic and say I use 100 and mess it off. I go get drunk, do what I need to do to survive, but that other 400 I need to go find me a car, I need to go find me something to put up I need something that I can show for in the next month. But I know people who don't mess this up. And I would hope that you all have some way to separate me from them. And I think it's very, very difficult for us in a month or in weeks to come up with some type of a way to mitigate what that process looks like. But people need immediate assistance, right, ma'am? To some degree. And you just like I want to make sure that that process is done in a way where there's some data behind it. And we're helping people who can show at some point in time that we've done something to help them not for political purposes, not to say that we did something, but to say that we utilize the funds wisely. And that is what this amendment, I believe is intended to do. So I'm not not voting for the amendment. I wanted to ask some questions in particular about how this amendment would affect the actual process in which people could receive these funds. I don't know what's going on. I don't know if you're screaming in my background, but there are some stuff that went on earlier before I came on camera. Besides my apologies. But what I want to make sure is make sure of is that we are having a conversation about what the amendment is that is common. This amendment here that is on the table also. These things are very important. We can Make this five or $5.5 million investment in our communities, we cannot Well, we have to make sure that whatever decisions we do make can be measured on either negative or positive, the pros and the cons. So, you know, when I asked what is that process will look like and how people will receive those funds. That's also because I know within the treasurer's office, and this not send any punch to the mayor, or the treasurer themselves, but there is no real process in which we've talked about that shows how it is that process will go and given out these funds, also, we all are trying to figure out the best way that this can be done the right way. So would you be against ensuring that anybody that took these funds, anybody that applied for them and insured, I mean, that ensured that qualified form, would also have to go through some type of a financial assistance program to give them different ways that they could spend this funding, regardless of how it is that is able to be spent, sometimes you can't tell people what to do, just like we all know, you can take a horse to the water, which can't make him drink. We can teach people what to do. But it's up to folks that want something out of life to follow what it is.  That is some type of a path to save, that they see other people walk that can help them get to some type of place that they would like to be. And we all know that places out of house and we all know that we don't want to see more homelessness, we don't want to see more homeless people on the street. So I'm in alarm, an alignment with you. I don't want to see more homeless people get out here and get high as hell off this money and be out here and more and more of a worse place than they were before. There are plenty of people that out here that died during the pandemic that we're not talking about. We talk about the homicides and the shootings. But we don't go into individuals that overdosed because of the stimulant and again with other things. So I'm 100% with you on ensuring that it goes to the right place. And but it also, I guess puts us in a particular position where we know as a community, we know we need credit assistance, we know we need some type of financial empowerment, that isn't something that the treasurer's office came up with willy nilly, they didn't just wake up and say we want to send 500,000, our extra money to the treasurer's office, I actually assisted and not only assist it suggested that our folks learn within an hour to some type of financial assistance to where it comes along with gaining some money, you earning that funding, you know, I learned something and maybe I can invest, you know, we got the market up right now maybe I can do something else with it. But at least there's some conversation on this $500 school to go to more places, just like we stated before we got assistance for utilities, we have assistance for rentals, we got these assistances out there for us to be able to live. But what is this money being used for, we just don't want to give it out and say take it and go have fun. We want to have some type of assistance with it. So we can measure what it is that we've done with these millions of dollars, just like we want to measure with the 10s and twelves and millions of dollars that come after millions I'm sorry, the hundreds of millions that comes out that we approve this border bill. So I'm once again I'm not against the amendment, would you be in a place mentally, where you'd be okay with our people, and anybody that received this assistance, learning something before getting it, whatever that program consists of, you know, it's about empowering them financially with the money that they earn through us giving them assistance through the city. And you know, that doesn't mean that only, you know, a homeless person can just walk up or any person that is in the community can walk up, if you're not serious about earning something, then then you won't be one of those individuals, because you qualify that will walk in with his virtual or whether it's physical, will actually come to get the funds whether you qualify or not. But it gives us some type of tenants ability to walk into the financial opposite compartment in other places and say, Hey, you know what's going on? This is as good program. It's not we know our folks need a lot of things. But would you be open to that?

John Collins-Muhammad, 21st Alderman  49:32
Thank you, Alderman Bosley. I would not be opposed to it. Am I open to it? I don't have an answer. I think that making people take a class on how to spend money and it's $500. I think that that could be a barrier for some people. I think that they can be a deterrent for some people. Am I against it? No. Do I think that it will be productive with teaching You want to spend $500? I don't know, will will will single parents sit in a classroom structure? To learn how to spend 500 bucks? I'm not exactly sure. But to answer your question, I'm not against it. I'm not for it, but I'm not against it either.

Brandon Bosley, 3rd ward Alderman  50:21
Understood. So we sit in like a classroom settings all the time and other places for timeshares and a gang of other things. I think $500 for one hour of your time, and it's not about the money in particular, it's about giving those same assistances that we've been trying to give our people for such a long time. So the difference is that we can grab ourselves some individual, that would be with a high price tonight that has the financial education to teach us on a large scale, how it is that we can spend any money that we get every $500 that we get, it's not about this one. But it's about the next check that you get that 500 that you can get over the next six to seven months, that can teach you how it is in one year, you can turn it into 1000. Put that in a 2000 or 3000 are folks dying right now, as we know from lack of knowledge, and we have the ability to put into any type of financial institution that we already are putting funding into that's teaching our folks giving them the ability to take money that we've never had the ability to give them and show them how to invest how to invest in themselves how to do things differently than they've done with an extra $500 that we already fill in like as a community. And that's just being real, has been matched off over the stimulus. This is different. And if we treat it like is different, and we give individuals a different pathway in saying this is not the government finances that you got for this ain't the stimulus that Biden gave out. This is the different stimulus that the city gave us an opportunity to tell you that there are some ramifications and objectives that you have to complete. To be able to get to a different place in life, we all were able to sustain ourselves what the government did, and this appreciate what we didn't learn anything. We didn't learn anything, but you need to take the shot, you got to hurry up and save yourself. And that's $300 come in a month. If you hurry up and take this or do that, we're gonna put out a lot of rewrite now if you take this shot, and give a person a million dollars, and that's not what this is about. But I'm just given the differences between what the government has given us and what the city as the people that live for You mean, the mayor, our hoods president, the president of the board, all these different individuals realistic, we've never had this opportunity to say, Hey, we don't put 1,500,000 behind educating our people. I don't have a personal relationship with Adam, like, I do know, there has been disconnects between the treasurer's office and this board and other places before and that's okay. That's all fine and dandy. But with this $500 million, if we don't make this work, I don't care who and what office, folks will have to move around. And we got to make a move around as a community. And that's me, you that's the board. That's president, that's whoever, because our people have a chance right now. And it's north side with the rest of the town has been built up. In the west side. We can't be left out no more. But we got to have the education behind us. This ain't a one time thing where we don't get educated. And so I think if we started off, I mean, you both know, there has to be some type of start to get in there. We never had nobody willing to say hi, and I get 500,000 to just some, you know, teaching you mental stuff. If we say we want to go straight to stocks, and we want them to teach us about nothing but investments that we have, as a guru that come in here and teach all these black folks, minorities, whatever it is, it's gonna receive this funding because it's individuals as ramifications, but some of these white folks in my ward, some of them Asians, we teach them Yes, I got some Africans, we got to we teach them what it is to invest. Some of them got four or $5,000 from the federal government and you were sure if you'd invested 5000 in some of these oil companies, you'd be up to $300,000 right now. And as root, like there's a lot that people can learn from having the ability to have people teach them through educational institution. I'm not saying the Office of Financial Empowerment is the only way to go. But what I am saying is they are already there and set up to be able to empower financially and you know, there's a different person there. There's a different amount of dollars that are coming. They're not different amount. There's a different type. way that these dollars are being funneled. So with that we have some control level without people on only learning. Like I've always wanted to come up with some type of a way that we can put a coalition of people together that can have 510 20 $100,000 in a city should be invested in our city started with 800 or 500. Have you want to call over 500,000 people, we literally are paying bonds not paying bonds back from years and years ago. That's how these buildings are able to be stabilized in the city and all these billionaires are trying to privatize what it is that we already have stabilized. This is a time where we can stabilize an entire show at a time and get people educated on what it is that they can do to take private funds. private funds, imagine getting 10,000 people with $5 million, Bro, I mean, if hear me, look me in my eyes, imagine this 5 million turning into 10 turned into money. And I'm not saying it's gonna happen. What I'm saying is if we can really, really lay out what type of education we give them people and how it is they can turn this 5 million, something more than 5 million, then I think we can make some things happen. And I don't agree with just giving it to the house. And I'm gonna say that flat out on record, don't agree with it. I don't agree with this money going to alcohol drugs to all the people in the city that's going to go shoot the city up 20 minutes later. I don't agree with that at all. Period point blank, I agree with those who want to go out and make something happen for them and they family wants to invest in this city. So we can figure out how it is we can build whatever it is that we're trying to build over the next two or three years on this north side. There are different things that we can do based on the times that we are in if we utilize finances as a way to invest in that we can put people in a different financial perspective based on mentality and we can dictate what that education is. We've never had $500,000 to put into educating us the city just won't do it we close in schools right now want to know why? Because I said we too stupid that's messed up and I'm gonna put it right there. It's can we too dumb? We got all these kids in these schools are a cane re Oh, it's only 300 of them in 200 kids. But these 200 kids a smart enough to keep the school open. You're telling me they can't read good enough. Get out of here, man. Yeah, Chuck miles put telling us we don't quit telling us we don't have what it takes to be better. And then you, but you know what it feels like, bro. You know what it feels like to fight for our education around her. We never had money to put him in education. Nobody gonna educate us but us. I don't care who in the office of empowerment or who's there but we put money in there. I swear to God, we don't follow that paper trail that will educate us that will have problems. We need to be educated. And I don't care if it's 5 million 10 million. You're gonna educate us. And it's St. pajama humble. This for everybody in the Board of Aldermen, who think we're not gonna do better. within the next few years, we're gonna get educated. We're gonna figure out a way where we put money into these pots to get our people in a better mental mental capability of being able to take care of a community. It's only about these finances. These properties come and go. These bricks fall on town buildings down every day. And I will continue to turn down other people's grandfather's legacies, I swear to God, it's happening. But my people will be educated on how to build it back up. And you will not leave us out with these millions of dollars that are coming you developers, you institutions, you people that have the institutional knowledge that's turned down our institutions, you will not not invest in our ability to learn you won't take that front. These monies are meant for this because we ain't talking about education through our eyes. Don't mean we won't be educated to know who pulling strings and I don't care about Linda dissonant but I know that every single black person on his board and every real every real white person on this board who really wants to see this city do better know that education is a part of this thing about giving people $500 this is about educating them on what to do with 10,000 people or 5000 people. Now when you look statistically what's going on here in our city so we can talk these stats right quick. I don't know if you saw but I changed my coat Don't let it show I'm sorry. Is it Oh, all right. I'm sorry. Give me one second. All right, so statistical. So if you want to talk stacks, we got to look at where our sitting is, in particular, and what's going on. And I can go into it, taking a little longer to load up and what I like to phone is one off my spot, but we had over 12,000 crimes that happened in the city this month, month before is about five or six months before that was about two or 3000. We know the summers creep up, we know that things will continue continuing to statistically go up. As we've seen over the last few years. Things are rising around the city. They are you know killing folks, my people, black people. My partner's running around with ak 47. Why do you running around? They want the money you got in your pocket? Why we got all these burglaries running around? Why do we got CARS COMING UP mission? Because we can't afford them? You think we'd be stealing your car we couldn't get on? It ain't all about drugs. These teenagers ain't just running around trying to fit me I mean we literally robbing folks for 100 bucks man thing doing nothing for your life. We get $100 and we go mess it off. Don't even flip it. I got drug dealers out here right now that can't read, you know, you know messed up that is to look at my partners and know they can't read. You're not gonna help them with an application. The same JMC john Collins, Muhammad, I'm just talking to my brother. And this is you know, let me take that back. I'm talking to Ottoman mom, because I don't want to make it like that. My apologies, brother. It ain't on him. We go through the same thing. This man is trying. When he does not want us to put something forward. That ends up backfire. None of us want this to backfire. We have one shot, we never had 5 million 10 million 20 million to put on the north side. MLK, you know, a bad MLK look, we can shoot us around her every single day we try to get shot it. I've been alive the whole time listening to shootings and trying to make sure I get shot just in the backyard of my office. These same individuals that don't know how to think these are individuals that are educated because yeah. voted on our demise years and years ago, and now we got millions of dollars. Don't be stopping education around her when we vote this out or not. I swear that will be more education, educational pieces come on, whether it's the opposite of empowerment, or somewhere else, we will be taught that we're not only the white people or cathedrals or whoever it is when the city running everything, buying up everything and building in our side of town where we need to have millions of people or millions of dollars going into the 1000s of people who've been listening. Millions of days of search. It's our time and we're gonna be educate these few billions Ain't nothing but and I'm gonna say it to myself, to me a facade. We make you earn something. Now you're ready to earn. Don't walk through St. Louis city dogs. We got nothing for you. If you're not ready to earn something and take this 500 with the person next to you and do something better with your life. We all heard out her. We as the alderman hurting every day listening to the cries of the people. Yeah, we signed up for we want to help. But we also know how it feels to not be able to. We know what it feels to run into dead ends and not be able to have the resources to help you. We need help just like you need help. But we need any type of help that we give to be something that's sustainable. Something that's long lasting. And right now we got the ability to make something long lasting sustainable in the city. $5 million, knock on do Ottoman Ottoman boy and not to be disrespectful, Mohammad, Brother, listen, there's no way $5 million, don't do it. I don't believe $5 million to do. You have 11,000 people in your ward right now. If you gave me one of the In $500, right now, it wouldn't be enough to stop the shootings that go on in my ward, not happening. But imagine what we could do with 10,000 people who got some type of step into learning before they earn. We can't even get people to have jobs right now we are running around with jobs at our fingertips. Well, you go out that when you have this money, come good. Come on something. I'm sorry, learn something, why you earn something. We want you to get it. I'm tired of us talking always about the people that need in the tent. But people live in in houses and it's like a tip. Okay, rich falling down in my people houses right now why they live there. That's the tip. I'm bothered by the young house when we talking about people who are in houses that can't pay the rent, and trying to two and three jobs and trying to single mothers trying to we got millions of dollars to help people. With millions of dollars on parking lots. We put our money in the people. The people who are gonna save the city because the ones who could have left. They go. They come into city every day and tell us what we need. And then go back home and lay in Chesterfield. We know gunshots get reported. We know rapes and homicides are reported whether they happen or not, we don't seem. So I'm gonna talk about it like it is just like we say that it happens everywhere. Dammit. I'm sorry. Excuse me, it doesn't seem like because everybody wants to blame all the problems on a region on the city of St. Louis. And that's why the city of St. Louis got all this money. Now we don't play ball, progressive. glac, alderman conservatives. Let's play ball. We know what we need ultimate. Let's control what the end game is. It ain't about the money. What do we want out of giving them this money? Which is what these alderman keep asking for? What you're going to spend it on? What are we going to be able to measure? How are we going to know for a million everything going to draw us to get more guns in this city that's gonna shoot up the city worse? How do we know that? Because you could put $4 million out here and I swear to God, if you go out here and give all these encampments with no police protection. All this money, everybody out here is gonna be on war drugs, just like they weren't doing the pandemic, look at the pandemic and look at how much money wasn't being made. But how much drugs played a role in the deaths. That's something we'll talk about. You think that's not gonna happen here in the city. We need to have a way to measure and all these other places has had a way to do it already, obviously ain't done. I'm not saying Health and Human Services can't. I'm not saying anything. But what I'm saying is if you don't put some type of educational component and making people work forward, you got to work for it. And I'm willing to work for it. And I'm going to say, homeless or not, you got homeless people out there right now that don't want to work. I've talked to him. You got drug addicts, right now that's not looking for treatment. I've talked to him. Some of them already talked to him all none of us have. But those people who won't help them walk up and say, Man, I wanted not willing to go do what it takes to get it. But you've got to have parameters around it. We can't just say give them the money because they deserve it. And they fit within a bracket. I think the Office of Financial Empowerment is well equipped to deal with it. But we need to make sure that we are well equipped to handle what we're requesting of them as a boy. Whatever the plan is, whatever it is that we are going to do, and whatever it is we're requesting from any institution. If we can't measure it, then we're asking for the same thing that are asking for Blanchett. Just give automated mahama With all due respect, there is no plan with the Health and Human Services. Amen. Love. I love us all. There's no complete plan with all of this, but there is already substantial evidence But the opposite of empowerment can do the work. I think we need to make sure that whatever administrative costs that we put into it, which is that extra 500,000 us as a board, that's how we step inside of that office. That's how we step inside of this particular time in this moment and say, all right, what does this look like? What do we want our people educated on? You have the shot. And once you've educated them all the time and time again, we have 5 million, we're gonna drop into some how much do we want to see that return? We give our $5 million all the time to developers and everybody else. And in 10 years, we ask for something? When is it gonna look like when your taxes come back? What is it gonna look like when the 5 million comes back in a year or two from the city when people go out and spend this fiscally is everybody going to the county is everything going to a place where he's on accounted for. And I've talked to the mayor's office, and I want to make sure that I'm at least clear on that point. It is going on court. So there is some accountability on where it goes to, we can see it. But we want to be the individuals that help directing because of our people are what you call ill folks or what you call to some degree, on finance on educated. If we lack resources, when we give resources, the point is not for us to be able to continue and have to continue to pay for the same thing that we give out. Let's help people who are in need and give them something more than just what they've had. These monies have come through innovation. And whether you call the Coronavirus, innovative or not. I'm not saying that it is good. But there have been many things that have come out of these dollars or one of them. Let's be innovative in our approach. Appreciate you alderman Mohamad, I will yield back the floor.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:12:09
All the woman from the 13th

Anne Schweitzer, 13th Ward Alderwoman  1:12:15
Thank you so much. Mr. President, members, the board. Thanks for circling back. I would ask if the alderman from the 21st would yield to questions.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:12:23
Hold them from 21st we have the question instead all the one from 13.

Anne Schweitzer, 13th Ward Alderwoman  1:12:30
Are you nodding? Okay, thank you. Um, so thank you again for recognizing me. Thank you all my 21st for taking questions and being amenable to discussing the amendment that you put forward with another amendment. So I guess now I asked if you would be willing to withdraw this amendment and put forth amendment number 17. And since you're, I think doing such a great job with this amendment and talking about it, I'd love for you to keep going with it, if you'd be willing to do that. And I did send the redline copy as as alderman from the 22nd requested to to everyone's emails

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:13:14
Alderwoman. The proper form is to just amend the amendment. So we can amend an amendment. But we cannot amend an amendment to an to an amendment. So so the proper form would be to offer an amendment to his current pending amendment. And then if that passed, if that was voted up or down, then we'd be back to his original amendment. And then if his original amendment is voted up or down, then that takes us back to the original board bill. If it's been on, I have not had a chance to see the amendment by the feds a replacement for his current amendment. He would have to withdraw it. But that is that that may take a minute because he'd have to review everything that you've changed in that opposed to just amending the current amendment.

Anne Schweitzer, 13th Ward Alderwoman  1:14:22
Seeing the other hands up, so it seems like we've got a second to figure out the best way forward to make sure

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:14:28
the 21st are you willing to swap out your entire amendment for the new amendment that's in front of you

John Collins-Muhammad, 21st Alderman  1:14:37
and out? Thank you, Mr. President. I would like time to review the amendment in detail. I see that the amendment was sent I have not had the opportunity to look at it. I was busy responding to the members of the committee. So I will want to review the the proposed amendment before before I agree to anything,

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:15:03
which is a follow on, which is why it would be in better form to amend the amendment because then right now you would just offer your amendment and begin talking about. But other sure that we really don't have a means of getting it in front of us as a replacement to the current amendment.

Anne Schweitzer, 13th Ward Alderwoman  1:15:26
It is in front of the entire board with the changes made at the moment, it's everyone should have it in their email.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:15:33
Know, when that when when I use that phrase, when I say get it in front of us, that means putting it in the hands of the board. And the only way to do that is through emotion, by emotion that we move board bill. That was on a second alderman, alderman from Tara, you. So, um, excuse me,

Anne Schweitzer, 13th Ward Alderwoman  1:16:01
it. I do want to make sure I'm doing everything right. But I also

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:16:08
I'm trying to walk you through it. And if I take a look at this amendment, the way you propose that it sounded like it was a complete replacement of his amendment. So if it's a complete replacement of his amendment, you would have to have his his support to withdraw his current amendment. But we have the ability to amend an amendment, right. So it wouldn't take his cooperation. If you had it in a form that added or remove some language from his pending amendment. So then we you would just make a motion, we'd get a second. And then those changes that you're you're proposing would be up for debate. And then if it's voted up, is supported, and if it's voted down, we go back to his original his original proposed amendment. Okay.

Anne Schweitzer, 13th Ward Alderwoman  1:17:09
So there is a red line in March copy, and everyone's mailboxes including the clerk, which does I am happy to offer as an amendment to amendment 11. If I can, so I motion to amend amendment number 11. I, with the amendment that I have just sent, which does not have an amendment number because it is amendment to the amendment.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:17:35
It would still have an amendment number because we have to have an amendment number. Other declerck apply amendment number to it.

Anne Schweitzer, 13th Ward Alderwoman  1:17:46
Not yet. The clerk is on this email. So whenever the clerk Yeah, the for the IC alderman from the a it's a comment in the chat that it was amendment 17. But if this is an amendment to an amendment, this I guess would be then amendment 18

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:18:08
whatever, whatever the amendment that the clerk assigned to it. In the spring of all the amendments that we have the men amendment number that we use, you have that number.

Anne Schweitzer, 13th Ward Alderwoman  1:18:24
It's as far as I can see not been the redline copy has not been put into the drive but amendment 17 is listed. It's the exact same thing except it's not redlined. If you and that is in the drive.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:18:42
And the moment amendment 17 has been removed and replaced language and lines called out and the sections that change in the original amendment,

Anne Schweitzer, 13th Ward Alderwoman  1:18:52
the red line? That's a great question. The redline version is not in the drive yet. But the clerk does have it so I'm sure he's getting it in there as fast as he possibly can.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:19:02
Okay, if you if you would all know from the 22nd hazards in that handout. I'll go to him. That'll give me

Anne Schweitzer, 13th Ward Alderwoman  1:19:09
other fact. I'll present. I read I waited for everyone else to talk for to come back to me so we could discuss.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:19:16
Well, Water. Water. Yeah, that time you should order. Please state your point of order.

Marlene Davis, Alderwoman ward 19  1:19:26
Mr. President, process a procedure you're currently trying to explain. It is what we shall do as a board. board members shall follow the clerk. The clerk has not responded to the request. We will wait for the clerk to send the appropriate document so that we can move forward with action. point of order. Thank you.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:19:49
well taken. So let's again, please hold for a second. I'm gonna come right to you alderman from 22nd Alderwoman from the 13th. I'm good with the clerk to get the rest of the information you need for the amendment. And I'll be right back to you. As soon as possible, let us know put raise your hand when you have everything ready to go. I'll move from 22nd.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:20:21
Thank you, Mr. President, members of board. I'm Mr. President, just for procedural purposes, because I've gotten confused. So we are on amendment number 11. Correct? Yes. Okay. And so, if I want to amend amendment number 11 when I do amendment number one to amendment number 11. And I know that sounds convoluted, but I think that's how we're supposed to go. And so this is amendment 17 is a total extra amendment to the process.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:20:55
Right? Yes, it would depend on how the clerk would number them, and and how the clerk would record them. The clerk, you know, obviously the cleanest easiest way for, for you and others and all of us to to understand what that amendment impacted it would be amendment number one to amendment amendment 11. Okay, so. But given the clerk's and the latitude, the clerk may have just given it another sequential amendment number. But it doesn't sound like we have either at this point.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:21:40
Right, Mr. President, all due respect, can I ask that we move on to another amendment and come back to this, this is just we're gonna be sitting at a standstill until the clerk comes up with a correct copy of an amendment. And it was just sitting here and we've already, you know, been here for almost four and a half hours. So we can certainly circle back. I mean, that's just my my thought.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:22:04
To your point, we could vote amendment number 11, up or down. And during the course of this meeting, that amendment could still be amended. Later on, we can go on things and it could still be amended. And that's part of what I was trying to if there aren't any, isn't anything further on this one, all the ones for me,

Annie Rice, 8th ward Alderwoman  1:22:34
as President and members of the board, I'm not trying to belabor this at all, I think the goal here was to try to work on compromise language that would be in a new amendments into with both the sponsor of this amendment and other concerns that have been raised. Alderman Bosley is concerns and some others, I'm included in that compromise. And so I think, trying trying to figure out, you know, where we're at, we're separated like this, and we can't have conversations. As we're walking forward. It's it's a little bit tricky. You know, right now, there are three different amendments on this particular piece that are present in our drive. And so yeah, I would just ask well, I alderman from the if I could inquire of the ultimate for the 21st. Hold on from 21st. Will

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:23:29
you yield the question until all the one from the eighth? Yes. Thank you, alderman.

Annie Rice, 8th ward Alderwoman  1:23:39
So in an effort to try to find these compromise points, would you be willing to even just withdraw amendment 11 at the moment and so that it is still a live amendment you could bring back up at another point in the meeting after you've had time to review amendment 17 as drafted.

John Collins-Muhammad, 21st Alderman  1:24:20
Only if the other sorry for the long hesitate pause? I was really thinking I would if the others are not brought up until we reach a guarantee compromise on it. If any, if any other alderman has a amendment to Barbara number two, that's directly related to cash assistance if those other alderman agree to it. So yeah,

Annie Rice, 8th ward Alderwoman  1:24:43
I believe that's the case that I'm amendment number 17 is something that we are working on collaboratively and no one else would be bringing a direct cash assistance amendment until we get in the spirit of working together on Thank you, alderman. I really appreciate it.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:25:03
All right. So alderman was moved by the home from 21st. And second by alderman from the 22nd. On the 22nd, you remove your second. And for this amendment and all my fun at 21st, you remove your first. Yes. Okay. Thank you. Thank you. Alright, so now we're back to we're gonna import bill. And are there any other amendments? All the one from the 13th. 

Anne Schweitzer, 13th Ward Alderwoman  1:25:54
Thank you so much. I have one amendment to introduce, I believe it is amendment. Want to say? Five? Let me find it again in this folder. Yes, it's number five. So I would make a motion to amend board bill to committee substitute as amended with amendment number five, regarding intergovernmental agreements,

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:26:27
move but all one from the 13th entertain a second on that motion packet. So that's gonna bite all along for me on from, please proceed.

Anne Schweitzer, 13th Ward Alderwoman  1:26:37
Thank you so much. So as we go through board bill two, we can see that there is a lot of money that is going to be moved to, you know, from the city coffers to other organizations to actually put the programs in place and move things forward. This amendment recognizes that there were a few that were missed in the board bill two, regarding the money for year round youth jobs, the money for passes for youth between 13 and 25 years old, for buy safer Metro passes. And regarding program within the St. Louis Mental Health Board, to empower young people to organize events and safe spaces, all of these pots of money are already in board bill to what this amendment does is just make sure that the intergovernmental agreement is in place to actually get the funds where they need to go as efficiently as possible. So I'm happy to take any questions. And and I do hope that it's something that is a pretty simple amendment that just you know, helps us move the money as efficiently as possible where it needs to go.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:27:53
Thank you all men from the fifth. Alderwoman from the fifth. One more time, alderman from the fifth.

1:28:10
Are you go? 

James Page, 5th ward Alderman  1:28:13
Yes, thank you, Mr. President. My hand is up for another amendment, not for the current amendment.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:28:20
Okay. All right. Any further discussion on amendment number five? All in from the 22nd.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:28:33
Yes. Thank you, Mr. As a member of the board, I would just want the Alderwoman 13 to kind of walk us through this. I had to play catch up with trying to get to Page 11. Line 15. Help. Tell us what we're doing again, are we increasing dollar amounts? We said sound like somebody was left out. Tell us what we're doing again, please. Do I need to be asked to yield to questions? I'm happy to answer I just don't want to. Okay. Sure. Mr. President with the album from 12. You have a question? 13 1313.

Anne Schweitzer, 13th Ward Alderwoman  1:29:18
Yes, of course, heard the question. So I'll just keep going. So thank you all from the 22nd for that question. Really your question. So this doesn't increase any of the money and portal two. All it does is in the first paragraph regarding this slate, it working with the St. Louis public schools to administer the youth jobs program. So that budget line and board bill two of 1,600,037 783 and 892 cents is the exact amount that's in board bill two's budget allocation. It's just that board bill to didn't include that intergovernmental agreement. So this just puts it in to make sure

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:29:59
Sorry for the noise. So, I got construction going on. So I apologize, everybody. I'm not. Okay. So beginning that Page on Page 11, line 15. So Page 11 915. For the purpose of exhibit one, the Comptroller of slate. It talks about 1,637,000 for the public schools. I don't see that originally. And for Bill number two, you said it's already in there.

Anne Schweitzer, 13th Ward Alderwoman  1:30:41
Yeah. So if you scroll to our, if you scroll down to the location, the graph, I guess, a chart that shows where everything's going, Oh, yeah, that money for that 1 million plus, that is going to youth jobs, that's still going to youth jobs. It's just so that slate can work with the public schools to establish the program.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:31:13
So you're talking about exhibit one, scroll down to exhibit one, is that correct?

Anne Schweitzer, 13th Ward Alderwoman  1:31:19
For purposes described in exhibit one, so that I believe that that that first line is just telling where where this paragraph would go. Right. So and then the exhibit one being the chart?

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:31:35
I don't I'm looking at. And I don't see stainless public schools, and they sit on the slate. Is this supposed to be on the slide?

Anne Schweitzer, 13th Ward Alderwoman  1:31:50
No. So that's exactly exactly what we're trying to do is or what this amendment trying to do is say that in the chart where it says youth jobs, it's just a governmental agreement so that the public schools can be the ones to administer this program.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:32:08
Okay, so where I'm looking at worth testing? Are you saying Summer Youth jobs? This is the year round youth jobs? I'm sorry, I'm not following you. Can you point me exactly where you are?

Anne Schweitzer, 13th Ward Alderwoman  1:32:22
Let me open up the board bill two, but I. So if you're looking all the way at the Page 3637, or where I believe the chart is once like, my computer's taken a second to load the chart. So with on Page? Let's see. Um, it's on you see the St. Louis agency on training and appointment, it says year round youth jobs.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:33:12
Okay. This is $2,500,008. Right.

Anne Schweitzer, 13th Ward Alderwoman  1:33:18
Yeah, I see what you're saying. So my understanding then would be the the money to move over there would be for the program to be administered for by the St. Louis public schools.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:33:33
Now, something doesn't add up. I'm confused. That that does. I mean, if you understand you want to do an agreement. If this is supposed to be cleaned up language form agreement, then the numbers should match, right? Yeah, you're absolutely right.

Anne Schweitzer, 13th Ward Alderwoman  1:33:49
I'm not sure if that's my oversight, or if I'm looking at another number. Well, maybe we can figure it out. We'll come back to it. But this is not an order. Can I defer to the Alderwoman from the eighth Ward? Was it her amendment? No, I just, she seems to have an answer. And I don't and I'd rather have the answer out there. Okay. You have to ask the president is I Yeah. Can I defer to the alderman from the eighth word, please?

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:34:24
You're muted. Yeah, if the alderman from the 22nd I'd like to redirect his question until all the information we can ask all the woman he could inquire. Okay. Okay, gotcha. All right. So with the outline from the eighth year for questions, all one other question that sounds 

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:34:44
so odd one that you have the answer to my question, would you like? Yeah, I

Annie Rice, 8th ward Alderwoman  1:34:49
think I can help clear this up. So the the 1.6 you're not going to see in the line item because so this is part of the 2.5 million four You've jobs. So the 1.6 is the slps commitment and their their input into this fund. So it's not going to translate directly in like, you're not going to find that 1.67

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:35:16
specifically in there. Okay, so in the amendment, it talks about transfer up to $1.6 million to slps for the establish of year round jobs program. So, but in the exhibit is allocating 2.5 2 million pounds $1,008. So where's the difference going? This is not adding up. So it looks like in the exhibit, the whole 2.5 plus million is going to year round jobs. And I get it. If you're saying slps is the one that's going to be administrating that, but are you know, there's a he was kind of 1000 hour difference I know.

Annie Rice, 8th ward Alderwoman  1:36:00
So we think that that transfer the 1.62 s s for these jobs, then the the leftover of what is in that 2.5 can be used for corresponding uses. It's just not in that that same allocation to slps. Because the slps allocation is a specific amount for this program. The rest can be used within the the appropriation.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:36:25
Okay, So wouldn't it make more sense that you would just say you're around 1.6 was million, and then but the other 800, some 1000 is some other category? Because otherwise, it's just floating. We have no idea what it's going to be used for?

Annie Rice, 8th ward Alderwoman  1:36:42
Well, sorry, I think, my gosh, there's so many documents up here, hang on one second, I've got two computers. Let me get back down to the surface. So I under. Okay. So I think this is for well, so it would still have to be used under year round youth jobs, just not slps specific, they would still have to use it within that category of year round youth jobs, it just wouldn't necessarily be to an slps partnership for that. So I don't think that all of our youth jobs are through slps. So this could be used outside of that. But within that category of urine jobs. I'm sorry, you're muted, alderman. The back room cycles, the front door.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:37:49
Okay, so man I'm multitasking to um, so but what I'm saying is, is unencumbered kind of sorta, entirely, just not not to slps? Well, who is it going to sleep? But it doesn't say that in here. 

Annie Rice, 8th ward Alderwoman  1:38:07
Well, it says you wrote us jobs with SLATE. 

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:38:12
Okay. All right. I have no further questions. All right.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:38:17
I'm all the one from first.

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  1:38:21
Mr. President, members of board, so slate does other, I can ask that a little bit better. Slate does have a year round jobs. So that was the remainder would stay with slate to do other year round jobs. Like if you go to case management or wraparound services, that's not specific. In this case, we're making specific that a certain amount that we already know, is going to go to the St. Louis public schools, which is approximately 1,000,006 50, I'm rounding it up, because it's 1,000,006 37. The remainder of that money would stay nothing in account, and then they would be able to use it for year round services, jobs creation. And so the rest of it is not specific at this time, because I would probably believe that they don't have a specific partner at the time, but later, hopefully, they will have it and that's how the money will be spent. You will see that 247,003 62/20. So some of you jobs. They don't have an agreement with somebody, but that's there for some of you does, they could give that as one agreement, or they could do that as several agreements, or they themselves I think sometimes do some of you jobs. So most of it is not specific. The reason it came to the argument from the 22nd Ward's attention is because that's the only one that is actually specific. It's the one that's going to the St. Louis public schools on training and employment, which I think is a good fit. I think the argument from the, at the one time brought up money that we get to St. Louis public schools, to staff our parks that we used to pay teachers and things to staff, our parks and we stopped doing that And he was asking about that. So I think that's the confusion is that the only really specific one we have is for the St. Louis public schools and everything else in the St. Louis agency on training and employment is in a couch, which will then be drawn down on I'm hoping that as they draw it out, and they will get specifics on other things that they use it for. Thank you.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:40:24
Thank you. Alderwoman. For the 14th. Yes,

Carol Howard, 14th ward Alderwoman  1:40:30
I guess, you know, my question is, you know, most of these are nonspecific numbers. I just like to know where that where the figure came from $1,000,637 783. And 92 cents came from, I just, it's like, Okay, what is this? I mean, where did that figure come from?

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:40:55
All one from the 13th week? Oh, yeah. Well, the all the ones that 13th yield to questions. They're all on from 13th. The yield? The questions are all on from 14. 

Anne Schweitzer, 13th Ward Alderwoman  1:41:07
Yeah, I believe that is thank you for asking. Yes. All right. Can I restate my question? On from 14, please, proceed. flows yours.

Carol Howard, 14th ward Alderwoman  1:41:17
Okay. The, in other words, you're going to serve 1000 students. But you got a very specific figure here. $1,637.07 or 83 and 92 cents? How come? How did you come up with that very specific down to the penny figure. I that's working with the public school. determined. That's okay. liabilities of working from home? Sorry.

Anne Schweitzer, 13th Ward Alderwoman  1:41:56
No, that's the joy of working from home. I appreciate that. So that's with working with St. Louis public schools on that 1000 students. That's the number that was come up with an agreed upon to include financial and power and social work and mental health counseling, covering the ancillary and transit costs as well. That's what was, though the all of those numbers went in, went into it.

Carol Howard, 14th ward Alderwoman  1:42:23
Sorry. So rather than letting the slide handle this, we're gonna write that into the bill, which we haven't done that it's kind of inconsistent. We haven't done it for anything else. I don't know why. Why are we why are we doing it for this one? We haven't done it for the other allocations.

Anne Schweitzer, 13th Ward Alderwoman  1:42:47
I believe there are intergovernmental agreements for other allocations.

Carol Howard, 14th ward Alderwoman  1:42:54
Okay, that's all I have. 

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:43:02
Okay, Any further discussion? Any further discussion? 

Brandon Bosley, 3rd ward Alderman  1:43:06
All men from the third? Thank you, Mr. President. What, which neighborhoods? Does the office among the office? Yes. Would you like to yield the question? so my apologies. All one from the 13th wheel the questions and alderman from the third course. On the third, please proceed. I just just happen to be clear. So we given 1.1 million roughly many 1.22 youth jobs.

Anne Schweitzer, 13th Ward Alderwoman  1:43:46
The numbers is bigger than that this 1.6 ish would be the what we'd be working on with the St. Louis public schools. And they're matching the cost actually. So it ends up coming to a larger total at the end of the day. But are the portion coming from from the really funds would be the 1.6? How much are we looking at all together? Three, look at board bill two, there were a few different allocations for youth jobs. The 2 million for year round. Wait what? 220 2,000,500 for youth jobs? For your any jobs rather? Another about $250,000 for Summer Youth jobs, so about about 275 total? 275 extra 1000 Yeah, okay, so 2 million 750 million 2,030,000 total?

Brandon Bosley, 3rd ward Alderman  1:44:55
2,750,000. Yeah. Okay. Have you? So they're going to all schools in the city of St. Louis,

Anne Schweitzer, 13th Ward Alderwoman  1:45:07
going to the St. Louis public schools for 1000 students and which 1000 students? Is that is where they go to schools in terms of you know, every school a certain number, I doubt that I don't think that would be how it would be decided, oh, this amendment lets the St. Louis public schools work with that 1.6 million plus the 1.6 that they'd be putting into match.

Brandon Bosley, 3rd ward Alderman  1:45:37
Guys. So some names, some neighborhoods who have actually needed these funds have been historically left out. Interestingly, when I first got an office, I had a neighborhood of two that were left out of St. Louis, Steve Jobs, you know, he had funding for certain areas. So are we opening this up because of COVID funds to the entire I would say any map. So we have a geographical areas that we've laid out of interest that we need these relief funds would probably need to be mirrored in this relief for the educational piece. So is that still kind of where you're, I just want to the boundaries there.

Anne Schweitzer, 13th Ward Alderwoman  1:46:28
Yeah, this would be in line with youth job program requirements already in place, which take into account a lot of different factors about the applicant for the youth job.

Brandon Bosley, 3rd ward Alderman  1:46:39
So can we add other neighborhoods and it may not be all right now? 

Anne Schweitzer, 13th Ward Alderwoman  1:46:45
That I do not know. 

Brandon Bosley, 3rd ward Alderman  1:46:50
Okay. Do we have some sort of, so this is my my bit of an issue, right? We just closed on all the schools in my neighborhood. Few of them. Now, my neighborhood may not necessarily be the Third Ward, but 20/21, the 19/21 didn't have any schools closed down. But the main thing from it did another A man was in direct, I would say view from right across the street from my ward, my neighboring wards, they also had some some issues with school closures. We got millions of dollars that have finally come down the pipeline for federal assistance for the schools not only being supported educationally, but being supported physically, are actually given us funds to fix the schools. Those bricks that are fall in those old bathrooms, all those things that have been a problem for such a long time, we now have what it takes to be able to do something about it, just not through the relief funds that we're leaving through the city, these indirect funds that the government has direct, I would say capabilities to just share out what even like through some of the points that have to sign off, but there's some interesting things going on. So with the schools that we have closed, and I have students that live in this area, that were just students last year there because the schools closed, may not be necessarily in the footprint of where new school is. So we're talking 1000 students just want to be are we talking about 1000 students from particular school, certain areas do they have to be within the St. Louis public schools school to receive this one because some of our kids are now forced within the last year, we didn't get 10 years to figure out a plan. They shut us down in one year, that was more time spent on closing the schools and the word, keeping them open. I don't care what nobody says about. I'm gone. That is my that's how I feel. That's what I've read. That's what I've seen. I haven't seen a 10 year plan to close schools. I've seen the same floor plan which Mr. talk and talk about very, very long time. But I've seen some things that actually put us in a position where we are today that I've shown us that there's a path to where it is that we're headed. So with us having school closes and individuals that have not in the last year have been able to hurry up and get into another school within the city of St. Louis. Are those children still eligible? being high school students in another jurisdiction outside of the St. Louis public schools I still able to indulge in the program?

Anne Schweitzer, 13th Ward Alderwoman  1:49:48
It says 1000 students so from you know with this amendment, and this agreement would be 1000 1000 students, I don't think that they'd have to be at any one school in particular. Just students of the St. Louis public schools. And then you'll, I think it's also important to note that the this shall contain the last line of that amendment p says, shall contains that other terms and conditions as are approved by the City Council are and shall require approval of the Board of Education of the slps prior to execution. So it's, it's, you know, the terms haven't been finalized at all. And I do think all of these points are excellent to to make sure that those sorts of things are included, to make sure that the students that really need these jobs are the ones who are getting it.

Brandon Bosley, 3rd ward Alderman  1:50:40
Appreciate it. So respectfully, once again, and we this educational pieces, is something very, very interesting man, things have been very, very different for the last year, residents left and right, actually where they are going to chin, send their children to school, people spend millions and millions 1000s of dollars millions as a collaborative and put him in our homes here over the last year because of the NGA and other things that are common thinking that these schools would be open and be respectful. We've been fighting for a very long time to ensure that these children's have something to do after school during school, having educational opportunities, opportunities in general. And the more schools we lose, and the more people that don't come to aid during those times where we really need them, the harder it gets when times like this comes for us to just release funds for educational purposes. For us to just say let's do it without knowing that 90% is coming to the north side. Like that is just the way I feel. Most of the schools that got shut down was on my side of town. So those children that would have been eligible to receive what not would have been that would have been, I would say the schools based on criteria. I'm sure that my schools and a few other ones around but most certainly will be first up in line. If there is such a criteria, based on need. Some point time, there'll be things coming up where we will need individuals like yourself who are not facing school closures and facing educational issues like we are winning some allegiance, and that's just being real. I'm not, I don't want to come off this way. But I have to this is a lot of money that we are talking about blockchain. And a lot of these problems and issues affect the north side and the west side most in some bits at the south side. And I don't think the mayor is doing anything malice at all, by not having a lot of us involved in these conversations I've been there is in has been just a disconnect between what everybody wants for such a long time, we have to price these funds out or push them out right now. And so we just kind of move in to try to get some things done and I do 100% support STL you've jobs. But I know that we need support on a more board approach, I would say from the board, when it comes down to these educational processes sometimes were left out as the north side and west side. And it's at the south by ourselves to kind of figure out this educational piece. So you've been in the water person, I appreciate it. But I really, really feel like with his sto you've jobs and other things that are going on with education, we should be very, very targeted, what our approach, it shouldn't just be left up to the whole city with some of this stuff. We got problems, we got issues. And we need to target where it is that we're sending funds to ensure that those issues have remediation. And I'm not saying once again, the mayor's office isn't I think they're doing an excellent job with what their intention in 10 is very, very important. There's no way we are going to get it right. We all got different ideas and what we think should happen. I think that office intends to do right. And I think we all as a board intend to do right. But with this particular piece in general, I will support it. But there are some other things going on that I hope in the future when we start talking about all these different educational programs and pieces. We need to save our schools. And we haven't talked about that particular piece. What are this that's going on, but it's about about helping 1000 students. Let's talk about saving these few schools that are housed in those students at the same time. You know, why we got people that aren't necessarily want to go to that piece, but I appreciate it. Thank you. Thank you all the one from the 19th. You are there you go. You're good. Okay.

Marlene Davis, Alderwoman ward 19  1:55:34
It is it is interesting that these decisions and conversations are going on, without input from members of the North community, most especially since we have been hit the hardest with all these school closings. And most of the people who are all of a sudden so concerned about education, have not followed what is going on, on the national level, on the state level, not on the local level. You say closing these schools have made it possible for a whole new Cowdray of charter schools to open. I just shared that with one of my ward. And he even admitted, you're right, I probably wouldn't have been able to get the 130,000 students if Dunbar school had not been closed. So I'm not interested in playing games. We also have not paid attention to the money that was just approved on a state level, one from a lawsuit. Another one from underfunding on the state level that went to the St. Louis public schools, we also have not looked at the dollars that was a direct payment from the federal level, to the education systems here. And we're about to see another pot of money be distributed. That was one from the previous desegregation lawsuit that had never been paid by the state of Missouri. So you need to know a whole lot before you get involved with supporting some of these decisions. And you need to have everybody at the table. You also need to understand that slate has the absolute authority has always had it does not need an amendment for inter government anything, because they have contracts with so many agencies to provide direct services. They can do it on any given day. So let's keep it simple. Let's explore this a little bit more. And I do hope that we can find a way to have a better working relationship, again, with the public school system, not only with after school tutoring, with summer jobs or all year round jobs, but with recreation, trauma care and services. We used to do very good with that. And it worked. It changed a lot of lives. It improved a lot of communities, reduce crime, a number of things so we can get back to that. But it must be an all inclusive conversation. And you must know and understand where all the funds are. Thank you, Mr. President.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:58:51
All the men from the night? Sorry, I was muted.

Dan Guenther, Alderman ward 9  1:58:58
I will thank you, Mr. President. I guess I'll take a little opportunity to say something today. I know. It's three o'clock. We're five hours into this one. Some of us have been on zoom since eight. So some of us are seven hours in. So I personally just was getting a little bit lost in this conversation over an amendment for inter Governmental Affairs agreements, intergovernmental agreements. So basically, I guess, if the Alderwoman from the 13th would accept a question. I'm just going to clarify. I want to clarify some things for myself here.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:59:37
Oh, one from 13 will yield the question to alderman from the night. Yes, please proceed.

Dan Guenther, Alderman ward 9  1:59:45
Thank you. Alderwoman from the 13th. So, amendment number five that we're talking about right now is inter governmental agreements. So this amendment is just to allow us to add a couple other departments such as stainless public schools. Such as by state, for us to be able to say we're going to take some of our money, some of the funds and be able to put them into a pool with another government to be able to create a better good. So we're talking about St. Louis public schools right now, I questioned is your bill is $1.6 million of our city funds that we're allowing as an inter governmental agreement to get to the public schools. Is that correct? 

Anne Schweitzer, 13th Ward Alderwoman  2:00:29
That's correct. 

Dan Guenther, Alderman ward 9  2:00:30
Okay. And then also part of that is that $1.6 million dollars will be matched by the public schools. Correct. 

Anne Schweitzer, 13th Ward Alderwoman  2:00:40
That is also correct. 

Dan Guenther, Alderman ward 9  2:00:41
Thank you. So that means that between the city and the public school system, we are going to be giving $3.2 million to slate. And then slate will be able to take that $3.2 million and fun the education and after school programs and job placement for for students in any one of our districts. And even the district said, the schools that were closed down anywhere that they deem appropriate. So my question is, would it be up to slate to address the concerns of the alderman from the third of targeting the certain areas that maybe had their schools closed, maybe don't have rec centers, maybe don't have the job opportunities that some of the other wards have? it? We're we're basically allowing, we're just saying we're going to be allowing us to use $1.6 million to match SLP to be able to fund $3.2 million and programming anywhere. And that's what this is about, right? Yes, that is. Okay. I thank you very much. Alderwoman, from the 13th. I know, like I said, we're all many hours into this. And so some of the conversations getting diluted. I think this is a simple amendment. I, I'm standing in support of this. To alderman from the third, I completely understand you I spend time with your use. This money needs to be directed to the areas that law schools, to the areas that don't have commercial activity right outside their front door that need special assistance to be able to get the jobs and training and after school education programs. So I just want to say I support this amendment. I hope we all do. And we have I think 12 more to talk about. So thank you. I hope we will all support this. Thank you, Mr. President. That's all

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  2:02:33
right. Thank you all one from the first

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  2:02:37
just present members of the board, I do not understand this amendment is late, it's going to run the program. I understand this amendment as the St. Louis public schools is going to run the program. That's like, and that in fact, it goes on to say that they have to do record keeping. And they also have to, they have to report back to the city on expenditures. And key performance indicators also support this. But it's not like this fun to be running. It is the St. Louis public schools. I will say every black alderman here has a right to ask questions because they were excluded. If you're not hearing it. Let me say it out loud. Since I've been the biggest supporter of the mayor, they were excluded. That's why they're asking these questions. Okay. When you are asking these questions is because you are excluded. And I have been on everybody's case six mayor's will tell you that I've said if you exclude me, you air me so that the sixth layer, get to hear the same thing that the other five her, okay. So when you are excluded, then this is your time to ask questions. And you will not feel like that you were part of it. Okay, so everybody here understand. So it's not just about white people that we say we don't like to be excluded. We don't like to be excluded from black people having conversations, and we're not part of it. Okay. And that is the problem. You cannot leave us out. And that's why I'm going to say this. I have been the person that is supported or stood up and said, don't you do this? And I'm telling her and don't you do this again, okay. Do not exclude us. Because if you slap us in the face, we will come for you. Okay, as simple as that. So all of you are wondering what happened? You were included. That's why you think it's okay. Oh, okay. This is wonderful. It's not wonderful. When you are excluded. Let me make it perfectly clear. Okay. So I am trying to put on a big girl pants and support the things that are correct. But I do not support the process. I have never supported that kind of process. Be no matter who it is. Okay, I was gerrymandered by the president under that kind of process. I didn't. So I don't support it from anybody. So all these questions that we have our very, they have proper questions, and then we're done because we were not included. For all of you. Those of you who were included and feel included and feel Huggy kissy Understand, this is what we're talking about. This is not right. When you're excluded, and you don't get to be part of the process, then you will know that this is not a good feeling that we're talking about spending all this kind of money. And that we didn't have a problem of saying this, cuz we represent North St. Louis. Okay, not any of you. And there's nobody here that is represented nor St. Louis longer than me. And so my community looks for me to come and say this was going on, the first thing they did when they didn't see my name on that list and say, This is what's going on. You're not they're not on that list. So when you make a mistake as a mayor on up, and don't get mad if questions are asked, and all of you on this board, I'm wondering what's wrong with the black alderman nothing wrong with the black? Oh, they were excluded. Now, anybody want to disagree with me that because I must have missed that list? Well, we won't there because I missed. So I, I'm going to support this. But I wanted to get it clear that it is not a slate that's going to be running. This is the St. Louis public schools. I do love the things that are happening. I like the mental Hill health. I like the counseling. I like the closing, folding the transit costs, that's all the things, but you get much better participation, and people when they feel included. I remember the alderman from the 22nd world when he was the streets trying to get information from the treasurer about things and he got so I'm irritated about not being able to get information this year. Even though we passed the board bill out of the committee, the alderman from the 22nd war will tell you that I wrote back to the treasurer, you don't get to deal with disrespect him like that. You got to give him the answers. Okay. And I was not going to go forward with that board bill will answer so they have to give them an explicit information, we have a right to every piece of information that the mayor and the comptroller has. And it is not we're not doing our due diligence if we don't do this. So I've said this about five other mayor's So let me start with the sixth. I am a co partner in this with the board volume. We are co partners we work together. So all of you all fill in smugly you got everything in here. I mean, we are taking a big gulp and still trying to do what's best for the city. And these are some good programs, but they maybe are not as good as they could be. If we had had some say in them. There is no big boss, and they're certainly in anybody who knows the city any better than me. I'll tell you that right now. Okay. And so therefore, when you exclude the people who know stuff, look for a few people who feel like I just got here, but I got all the answers. You don't you found that with proposition, the proposition that you had all the answers to tech that you did, okay. And there's all kinds of other things that you don't. And if I can, I will give them help people who want to change. So I'm not scared to change. But every change is not good. And if you don't know how a fits with z, you will mess up. And I have purposely kept my mouth quiet, and just let people get their heads banged. Because you cannot. And I will say again, leave out the black alderman, if you do, I will stand in unison with them to do what we need to do to make you understand you cannot leave us out. Okay, that is the problem. So all of you are wondering what the problem is. It is not us because we didn't make a list that left us off of it. I'm sorry, Mr. President, I'm still going to support the amendment. But got a little temper there. Um, I met here in my mother's house with a plumber and I have no water and I really need a break because I have to go next door, because I wasn't planning on this meeting. But I am going to support it. But I don't like anybody thinking that we're unreasonable.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  2:08:47
Oh, thank you. Thank you, Alderwoman. For that, that I think that cleared up a lot of things and I appreciate alderman from the 17th for the first time. All the one for the seventh from the 17th for the first time. Alderwoman from the 17th one more time yet. There you go.

Tina "Sweet T" Pihl, 17th ward Alderwoman  2:09:13
My video. Thank you, Mr. President, and the members of the board. I will order it with 13 yield to question.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  2:09:28
Awesome. 13 we yield a question to all the ones concern. Yes. All once on the 17th. Please continue.

Tina "Sweet T" Pihl, 17th ward Alderwoman  2:09:36
Thank you Alderwoman from the 13th. My question is which students are going to be targeted in terms of this money? says that that is not

Anne Schweitzer, 13th Ward Alderwoman  2:09:53
Yeah, that exact specific 1000 students has not been discussed the last line of this That is that the this basically city's working with St. Louis public schools to facilitate this program where the city is providing half the money, the schools are fighting the other half, and the city counselor. And the board of education will come together to approve the conditions prior to execution. So this intergovernmental agreement is supposed to be trying to make things as efficient as possible and maximize the money that that both institutions that are putting forward can do the most good.

Tina "Sweet T" Pihl, 17th ward Alderwoman  2:10:33
Thank you. My other question is, how do we make sure that the students and black students, you know, especially on the north side, are going to benefit from this? And we know from history that regarding ourselves as black individuals, we have been denied education. And we're here because we are in this position of not being economically, economically solvent because of these things, you know, regarding slavery, etc? What do we have been denied education? And so I am concerned regarding, again, who is going to be who is going to be benefiting? And how that can be possibly put in there to make sure that that happens.

Anne Schweitzer, 13th Ward Alderwoman  2:11:27
Yeah, I hear Yeah, I mean, there, you're that's a good concern. I think it's worth sending those concerns to the board of education as the counselor and St. Louis public schools prior to execution, so that those things are all taking place. This intergovernmental agreement doesn't serve to create the program to outline the specifics of the program, it's just so it can be allowed to, to happen, and I hear you on everything you're saying. And I think, you know, from I can't, you know, vouch for everything that we each one is going to be exactly what is put forth. Of course, I you know, I can't I'm not on the board of education. I'm not a city councilor. But I do think that these are the things that we should be looking for as this program does come to fruition. But, but at this exact juncture, it's it's just to make sure that we can fund that we can get that I can get funded. But I hear you and I 100% agree with everything you're saying. I agree with what I've heard from, from all the older people who've expressed their opinion on on schools. And, you know, I, we talked about different topics here, during this discussion of his amendment that I'm, you know, I think are good discussions for us to have. But yeah, this this doesn't outline the specifics of the program.

Tina "Sweet T" Pihl, 17th ward Alderwoman  2:12:46
And perhaps you can't answer that, you know, how do we guarantee or make sure that happens? You know, it is a big concern of myself, and, you know, all during the north side that have been left out of many different economic tools, you know, what would be next for us? Whether this, you know, passes to make sure that that happens, I am in agreement with it in a governmental and the necessity to have that passed, so we can use that money. But again, it comes to me regarding the ability for different underserved communities, black folks, etc, to get that money in terms of being allowed to now hire ourselves. So that's, that's my comment. Another comment. What, regarding alderman Tyson, I tie it so I, I agree with a lot of what she has said, in one of the things I really do feel it is important is, as a city planner, as going to school regarding looking at how to strengthen cities, is that everybody needs to be involved. And, you know, the individuals in terms of again, going back to the north side, you know, having conversations, in terms of it's the individuals who are able to solve the problems. As I've been working in underserved communities for over 20 years. I'm there to facilitate the process. I'm not there to say to communities or neighborhoods, you know, what if Satan neighborhoods, this is what you want? So it's important to you know, get that information and work that into whatever. You know what whatever you want to solve, and again with Alderwoman Tyus. I do agree regarding, you know, when we were together we went Have more effective and efficient processes. And I feel that in terms of this particular amendment, I don't think that has happened. So my last statement will be just, you know, one plus one equals 100. You know, when we work together, we will be stronger. So thank you,

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  2:15:22
alderman from the 22nd. Thank you, Mr. President. of the board without on from the 13th. Year, all on from 30. We yield alderman from 20. sec.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  2:15:36
Yeah, I'm clearly understand what you're trying to do. I don't have a problem with the amendment. But I am questioning. So this summer youth jobs program is a new program. Is that right? Even year round? Yeah. The year round? Yes. Okay. And so when we dealt with proper frappe s funding, I remember there was Summer Youth jobs. And so a lot of those kids were certainly St. Louis public schools, you know, targeted kids. Are we is this is a similar program. I mean, are we just, you know, you funny to different programs? I mean, have we already have funding? I know, it's probably not enough, but what you're offering is certainly, you know, a lot better deal much better. But it's, are we competing with that program? Yeah, I

Anne Schweitzer, 13th Ward Alderwoman  2:16:29
hear you. And I do think it really does come down to that. Being able to offer more having a better deal I, I, from what I'm hearing everyone say, it seems like there's going to be no shortage of people, young people who can take advantage of this sort of program, from what I've heard from people who are involved in the summer youth jobs that a lot of the the issues can be, you know, if it's running over the summer, and then school starts, and then the program might, you know, fizzle out or be harder to get back up and go in. So there's been a lot of discussion. And I've definitely Personally, I'm a proponent of year round youth jobs, to make this program as well. But I think it's not trying to take away the Summer Program, which is working well and people are involved with and employers are participating with and young people are persuading with, but adding the sort of other way forward with all these other services as well with an another organizations and public tools that has a vested interest in their students succeeding. So I think that's kind of why there's this kind of separate idea.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  2:17:44
Okay, once again, this conversation has been very beneficial and very enriching. because it reminded me of, you know, the experience that we went through with the public safety subcommittee, and there were so many great organizations that are doing the good work to impact systemic change in our community, for example, big brothers and Big Sisters, the different mentoring programs, and we are looking at public safety and looking at, you know, creating a paradigm shift in our distressed communities, as far as, you know, mental health awareness, and I just think of how we can go back to those organizations like big brothers and Big Sisters, and the ones that we couldn't fund to the full capacity and how they can now be potentially included, you know, in this funding, but again, that's what the legislative process is for. And that's what having this dialogue is all about, so that we can create better and more opportunities for our city, unlike, you know, the hard work that the stimulus advisory committee did, because now you're experiencing feelings, you now you know, how we feel about our communities and how we're connected as black alderman to our communities and how we can collaboratively work together and make things better. So I just had an aha moment. And I'm supportive of your amendment. But it just goes back to how if we could pause a little bit on some of this stuff, we don't have to rush through all these amendments today. We don't have to do that. You know, we could just say, hey, look, I'm good with what we've delivered thus far, and move on and make things better for round two. I'm just throwing it out there for people to think about and consider because we're only going to be here another five hours, and some things we're going to resolve and some things we're not going to use up. So I just want to say that but I'm glad you brought this amendment because it created this I have an experience for me. And it you know, shows again, there's a lot of work for us to do collaboratively. So thank you.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  2:19:55
Thank you. Any further discussion Any further discussion? All right, um Alderwoman from the 13th. Recognize the close on your amendment.

Anne Schweitzer, 13th Ward Alderwoman  2:20:10
Thank you so much, Mr. President, members of the board, I really enjoyed this discussion about the schools and how we work with them and youth jobs and how we work together. And I really appreciate my colleagues for giving so much good input. And And with that, I renew my motion to to amend word bill to committee substitute as amended to add amendment number five. Hope I said all the right. No, you did.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  2:20:41
It's been moved by all from 13 seconded by the on from the eighth that we adopt the number amendment number five to board bill number two committee substitute as amended, VOTE BEING TAKEN All in favor signify by saying aye. pose? Motion carries. No all the one from the 26 head, something all the ones from 26? Are you ready?

Shameem Clark-Hubbard, 26th ward Alderwoman 26  2:21:15
Yes, I'm ready. Thank you, Mr. President, members of the board. I would like to introduce amendment number four, to board bill to may serve as a maybe it should be in your drive. If anybody does I have it. Let me know before I start. Okay. Um, I like to make the motion random.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  2:21:37
amendment number four, it's been moved by all one from the 26 entertain a second on that motion. I'll second that. I can invite all women from the 23rd. And before we move on, alderman from the fifth, you had exit for a second that your hand was down, which is why I went to the old one from the 26th. I didn't want to go to you if you weren't ready. With the length of things people have had to jump in and out. So. So we'll go out. I'll go to you. I'll go to the next if that's fine. Thank you so much, Mr. President, I make it my business to stay ready. We'll I'll come to you after we finish the amendment that all the ones in the 26. Thank you. All right. On June 6, please continue. Okay.

Shameem Clark-Hubbard, 26th ward Alderwoman 26  2:22:26
So amendment number four, I'm sure you probably heard a little bit about it. It's a little bit easier than some of those we're dealing with is saying incentive program for the COVID-19 vaccination Incentive Program. Through gift cards. I know we've seen it in other events where people are passing out, you know, Cardinals tickets, other things of that nature. This one I think, is a little more targeted is going to be visa corps where our constituents can use them anywhere. And I have talked to the health director about this program. And he either our health director is amazing, because since it will be administered through the health department, he wants to again, as usual couple it with education and building trust in our communities. But instead of doing work, so why we are

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  2:23:15
all one from 26. I just want to make sure that the get this correction. It's amendment number 13. Correct.

Shameem Clark-Hubbard, 26th ward Alderwoman 26  2:23:25
At that it was amendment number. I was told it was amendment number four, but it did print out as amendment number 13. So

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  2:23:32
let's let's go into amendment number 13 sides. Okay. You amend your motion that the amendment 13

Shameem Clark-Hubbard, 26th ward Alderwoman 26  2:23:44
Okay, I would like to amend my motion that is amendment number 13.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  2:23:48
Okay, perfect. Now continue. Thanks.

Shameem Clark-Hubbard, 26th ward Alderwoman 26  2:23:52
So with that, you know, I was just comparing it to some of the other incentive programs as well as the one that's just passed in St. Louis County. I know that we are working with a lot of these things as it relates to our health disparities regionally. So again, I talk to the health director about this, he is big, and we know he's big on building trust. When it's sent us we'll get help get our constituents in the door so that we can educate them more and build up the trust between them as it relates to vaccination. I know a lot of us are fully vaccinated, but a lot of our constituents are not and they still have a lot of questions and a lot of apprehension about it. So this is just a blanket giftcard program as an incentive, coupled with education to build trust with the health department under the COVID-19 vaccination incentive program in this building. If anybody has any questions, I can try to answer

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  2:24:46
any discussion on amendment number 13. Any further discussion on amendment number 13. I thank you all for that all the ones in the 15th discussion

Dr. Megan Green, 15th ward Alderwoman  2:25:03
Sorry, Mr. President, members of the board, I just have one question with the Alderwoman 26. Yield

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  2:25:10
all 26 we yield to all the ones from 15?

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  2:25:13
Yes. 15 please continue.

Dr. Megan Green, 15th ward Alderwoman  2:25:16
The only question I have about this i supportive of this the sab looked at this, it was one of the, the recommendations, and I think they ended up putting 500,000 in four in one line item. But the question I have is it says, to purchase prepaid Visa gift cards. I correct me if I'm wrong, but would this have to go out to bid for who would administer the gift cards? And would we know for sure that they are visa? Could they end up being MasterCard american express something that is not? visa?

Shameem Clark-Hubbard, 26th ward Alderwoman 26  2:26:04
Yeah, I am, I'll be honest, I will have to give a correct answer for that. I'm actually the one that pushed for it to be visa instead of some of the other things that they had proposed. Because I didn't want it to be a specific store that maybe a constituent couldn't get to, or something that somebody has already given us, you know, something that they can use for. So I wanted it to be visa where I could use it anywhere, and definitely keep the money circulating locally in our city. So that is why I asked for it to be visa, but I would have to clarify that answer for you as if it would have to go out to be

Dr. Megan Green, 15th ward Alderwoman  2:26:41
okay. Because I agree with that, too. I think we don't want this going to a whole bunch of you know, big box stores or something like that a cash card for somebody is the ideal situation, I just was not sure about putting specifically a credit card company in it, when there are a lot there various credit card companies that administer these, and I think it would probably have to go out to bid. But that that would be my only I think question about that. So thank you that that's all I have.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  2:27:21
alderman from the 23rd. 

Joe Vaccaro, 23rd ward Alderman  2:27:24
Just Just real quickly, would that be when they get that card on the second shot when they're fully vaccinated? Or is that on the first shot? Just when they show up?

Shameem Clark-Hubbard, 26th ward Alderwoman 26  2:27:34
So because we have the two different options? I'm not sure if they have clarified that I think that that falls under the how the health department will administrate the program and as a whole, but I don't want to say if it goes on the first or second because some people might choose the jasna. Jonathan, and so I'm

2:27:51
just gonna put it put it in the hands of the health department. Yeah, that sounds good. Okay, thank you. Thank you.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  2:27:58
All one from the six. Thank you, Mr. President with the Alderwoman from the 26th yield for questions all from 26. We are all one from the six. Please proceed.

Christine Ingrassia, 6th ward Alderwoman  2:28:11
Thank you, Mr. President. And thank you for spending some time chatting with me. Alderwoman. I'm just curious if you could explain a little bit more in detail about how this program will work. I'm definitely intrigued by the idea of incentives for getting folks vaccinated. I had a meeting with Dr. Eccles in the administration, in my role as chair of health and human services within the first couple of weeks that the the new mayor took office and I was told by Dr. Eccles that he didn't think incentives worked. And so I'm just wondering, what changed his mind.

Shameem Clark-Hubbard, 26th ward Alderwoman 26  2:28:52
I cannot speak for him and saying that anything changed his mind. But I will say that I had a conversation we over text and he was part of the email thread with me. And like I say he was big and is still big on educate good education and trust within our communities where he was not totally against incentives as a whole. And saying that, again, we are offering them in other forms here in our city already through the forms of Cardinals tickets, Amazon cores, you know, all these other things that are working for their programs. And then it just passed when it had passed in St. Louis County, which again, we are working regionally together to try to deal with these health but the health disparities and the apprehension of people getting vaccinated coming up on this delta virus uptick and everything that's going on. I think that he was just probably having a conversation with me and trying to see how he can work through it and use it to what it however his ability can do to impact making sure we up are not up get up our numbers for vaccinations in the city. I would never speak for Dr. Eccles. I have the utmost respect for Dr. Eccles and that he in his conversation He did express some his concerns, but he was not against this program, this particular program, and here's the way it works. Get them when you get your vaccinations.

Christine Ingrassia, 6th ward Alderwoman  2:30:12
Okay, and then just one quick follow up question. I guess I've heard a lot of our colleagues, I'm very concerned today about the actual implementation of some of the way we're, we are allocating money, which I don't disagree with. I am a bit surprised, because we did not undertake conversations with this level of scrutiny during any of the cares Act funding conversations under the former administration. And so, um, you know, to the point of making sure that we're doing this the best way possible. You know, I think having a mechanism by which the health department reports back on the efficacy of a program like this would be really valued by me. And thank you for letting me take some of your time. Alderwoman.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  2:31:05
Thank you all the one from the 19th. 

Marlene Davis, Alderwoman ward 19  2:31:10
Thank you, Mr. President, I just wanted to say that I do support this, one of the things that I do know from all the various programs that I'm involved with, as far as helping people and dealing with gift cards, we have a strong partner that's located here in the region, which is MasterCard, and they have been very supportive, and initiatives like this. And in many times, they will match whatever someone is proposing. So I'm sure that an RFP process should take place. And we should, in that RFP process, we should ask for assistance. As far as matching, and volunteers to help promote the program. All those things should be involved in this initiative. Thank you. All right.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  2:32:06
Thank you, Alderwoman. Thank you, all the ones from the first

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  2:32:11
Mr. President, members of the board, following with the Alderwoman, from the 19th said, I was going to make a offer of a friendly amendment to strike the word visa. And that way of just saying it's a gift card. Also, I will add, though, that if we are doing incentives, we maybe don't want to get into the weeds of what people want to spend their incentive, okay? If my mom gave me some extra money, because of something I did, I don't want her standing over me saying, but you can't buy this, and you can't buy that. So even though you may not want it to be a box, big box store that may be what they want, and incentivizes them. And I do agree with Alderwoman from the 19th, that we should include MasterCard, and which there will be a process. So if we could just do a friendly amendment and strike visa that will make me easier to support it because I do believe it has to pull out to be married.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  2:33:04
But hold on a second, all the one from the first would you like it from 2016? You do? Yes. So she can respond all the ones from 2016? Yeah.

Shameem Clark-Hubbard, 26th ward Alderwoman 26  2:33:15
I agree. Alderwoman Tyus. But that was one of my biggest arguments. At first, there were the stores named gas stations, things of that nature, I didn't want a constituent that doesn't drive to be given a gas card. I didn't want a constituent that can't get out to target to be given a target car. And so that is why I really pushed for it to be visa. Now knowing that MasterCard would be a good option. I don't I don't want to say I will strike the word visa. But unless someone tells me exactly what word I can use, that would make sure that it would be a cash card that they can use anywhere, not at a specific store, not at a specific gas station or anything like that. So visa

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  2:33:54
you just sent the amendment a cash card, they can use it all stores. Okay. I'm sorry.

Shameem Clark-Hubbard, 26th ward Alderwoman 26  2:34:02
So cash court would would cover that?

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  2:34:06
Wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute. Hold on. Okay. Um, so you. So you want something to make sure it's not target.

Shameem Clark-Hubbard, 26th ward Alderwoman 26  2:34:16
Not even being specific with names, I just don't want to give something to somebody that they can't use. So cash cards are constituents that can't get to anything but the corner store, they can still use that they're a cash card. Not something that they can only use at one particular store or one particular grocery store for that nature, anything. I just want them to be abused wherever they can use it, maybe they can, maybe they can use it to get food delivered with the food services wherever they can use where there's a need. I want them to be abused as a need and not have a barrier. So where they can't use it or can't get to where they can use it and then it's not an incentive for them.

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  2:34:56
The reason why I wanted strike struck is I don't want it to be so specific as to make it illegal is what I'm telling you. Okay? And so when you say you strike visa, otherwise, it's gonna gonna go up under that severability clause, and it's not going to be legal because they're not going to be able to just make it visa. And therefore if we just say, A, the, take that visa out, which is pretty easy, and then we'll have to trust the process of when they put it out to be it, what comes up, we can't, we cannot over micromanage everything, I understand where you're going with that, um, you know, and we can talk to the people who put it out to be here to say, look, can you look for something that is a, you know, something everyone can use something like that. But it is going to be a be a process, and these is not going to necessarily be the people that get the get the contract to do it. And that's all I'm saying. The perfect wording may not be except for I don't know if it's going to be who's going to do that isn't the supply condition. I'm trying to figure out who's going to whoever is going to do it, we can find out and talk to them, and tell them what you're trying to get at rather than to put it into the board bill and then take the chance that it be deemed illegal because of the term visa. Right?

Shameem Clark-Hubbard, 26th ward Alderwoman 26  2:36:15
What I just got a recommendation of prepaid debit card.

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  2:36:20
Okay, can that be used? That's fine.

Shameem Clark-Hubbard, 26th ward Alderwoman 26  2:36:23
That's fine. Okay. So is that a motion that has

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  2:36:28
amendment prepaid debit card? Alderwoman, prepaid debit card? Would you take a strike out these input prepaid debit card? Yes. Mr. President, this, do you need to

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  2:36:46
know that? You know, we don't have to? You, you can you can call that one perfectly. So So go ahead, do it.

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  2:36:58
So I'd like to make amendment to her amendment, that we strike out the word visa and put in prepaid debit card. A friendly amendment

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  2:37:07
has been moved by all one from the first seconded by the alderman from 90 in discussion. All in favor signify by saying aye.VOTE BEING TAKEN Aye. Opposed? Motion carries. Thank you Alderwoman. Mt word, please make note of that. Met. All one center.

Anne Schweitzer, 13th Ward Alderwoman  2:37:36
Thank you, with the alderman Alderwoman. From the 26th. Please yield for questions. We have questions, one from 13. Please see, thank you, I am in favor of whatever we can do to get people vaccinated. The one concern I have about this is we're not buying them all up front, and then giving them out. They're just sitting in a state. I mean, if it doesn't work, I don't think we want to end up with, you know, a million dollars of prepaid debit cards sitting in a box somewhere. So I just want to make sure for my own peace of mind that that's, that's not what's going to be happening.

Shameem Clark-Hubbard, 26th ward Alderwoman 26  2:38:14
I believe, respect and trust the leadership at the health department here in the city of St. Louis, I don't think that we're going to have any kind of problem like that when I know the county with the similar legislation, they stated that there if they had any left that would go to the health and human services. So there might be I mean, I prefer this, but I honestly don't think that we're going to have any kind of I wouldn't predict any kind of problem like this or any kind of misuse out of our health report.

Anne Schweitzer, 13th Ward Alderwoman  2:38:44
Yeah, not necessarily misuse just that we would buy all the cards, and then not give them all out. And then we just have, you know, half million dollars sitting in prepaid debit card somewhere. Out here. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I appreciate that. Yeah, I, you know, I think it's, I think it's a good thing to incentivize people to get the vaccines. You know, I, I hope people are kind of seeing a comparison here between doing this sort of work and cash incentives for people who are cash assistance for people who need it. You know, I think it all kind of comes down to helping out people who need help, and what what can we do as a city to do that? So I just want to point out that compete that a similarity. Thanks, I yield back.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  2:39:40
Right. All the men from the third. Thank you, Mr. President with the Alderwoman for the 2016 questions. How long from 26 were a year the alderman from the third alderman from the third please proceed.

Brandon Bosley, 3rd ward Alderman  2:40:00
Thank you just some 1,000% clear. We are incentivizing people to take the vaccination. Yes. Is there a particular vaccination, we're incentivizing them to take?

Shameem Clark-Hubbard, 26th ward Alderwoman 26  2:40:12
No, not three different times. And now it's not only you don't only get it if you get one of the other is to incentivize, incentivizes them to come in and get back nation, again, coupled with our leadership and our city health department with education and get another trust, and all kinds of other things that we can do to help curb the

Brandon Bosley, 3rd ward Alderman  2:40:35
start of viruses. So that's why I will tell you this, I really appreciate your efforts in ensuring that our people are safe, we are supposedly one of the places that are being hit the hardest. And you know, it's definitely important for us to try to ensure when we have things like this that come across for us to try to incentivize people to get as protected as possible, whether it's a virus or you know, anything else that's going on. screen. Well, I mean, we, you know, fire. So I definitely appreciate you raising that alarm. Is there as far as the educational piece? Are? Is there? I guess anything that goes along with us getting them vaccinated as far as them knowing about what it is that they're putting inside of them? I know you can specifically eggs, but are we quarantine any education that come along with it?

Shameem Clark-Hubbard, 26th ward Alderwoman 26  2:41:47
I want to make sure I'm clear education about the vaccination by COVID-19. And all that absolute vaccination. That's what I have to record Dr. sands on his, you know, he's not just given out anything that goes with all of those services, you know, that we have at the health department. So if you you speaking about that, please write about the vaccination and COVID-19 precautions and how you are absolutely.

Brandon Bosley, 3rd ward Alderman  2:42:12
Making sure he's talking to them about what it is injected, and all those things.

Shameem Clark-Hubbard, 26th ward Alderwoman 26  2:42:19
And about what they're getting the vaccine. I think I hope I'm following you up. I mean, as it relates to the vaccines, the same education piece that he's been doing the whole time, we've had some amazing vaccination events here in the city of St. Louis. So the same thing is just now when you come, you can also get this incentive to bring some more people back here, because you know, we have big, big, big ones and then float all the way down. And now we're dealing with the Delta, the Delta bear. So we're trying to engage people to come get back to you.

Brandon Bosley, 3rd ward Alderman  2:43:06
Sorry about that. Yeah, once again, I appreciate it. Um, didn't didn't know that this has been particularly presented by yourself. I know, there's a lot of different amendments that are and will be presented today. So I just want to just speak and say there is nothing that I have to say in store for any particular amendment that is against or for a person, I believe that we all are out here trying to do what we need to do for our communities to ensure that people get the proper care out of the resources that we all can provide right now in this particular point in time in history. So I definitely appreciate your efforts. I know there are a lot of people that have died from COVID-19 is very, very real thing. Some people are taking it like it is not. So you know, there's definitely folks that are our champion in our communities to ensure that those who can be protected or so, so wanted to, you know, appreciate it and get some information out of just the educational piece, and I appreciate it on the 26th. So, Mr. President, I just just wanted to add here from my perspective, I've been very, very quiet here on the COVID-19 piece. There's a lot that has conspired over the last few months and over the last year. I do want to take this time because there's a lot of pressure being put on myself behind closed doors with different entities and folks that want to have vaccination drives and things like that here in the Third Ward. I'm very supportive of people who are supportive of ensuring that their communities are protected. We all in life have different perspective on running around in neighborhoods. gunshots all the time with, with which other people can relate to and some folks can't. But we all have different perspectives on different ways to remediate that issue.  I just want to say, as we get out here and incentivize things that are going on, in respects to the Coronavirus, most of us haven't spoke, I had the chance to speak or not had the chance, having really talked about the opposite side of that spectrum, because it is a little frightening to tell people how you feel in opposition to certain things because it's, you know, it's real, my father had COVID. It's a real thing people have done and we want people to take it very, very serious. But also know how folks who have taken the vaccination and I've gotten very, very ill, and have found themselves in different positions that they may have not been in, had they not taken it so early. So I'm just as, once again, my community, this is a certain time that we're working on, we haven't tried to incentivize or give out funding for it. But since this is coming up, I have to be myself, I have to be real in my spirit. And what I believe I believe that everybody is working diligently to make sure that this situation is something that we do as a city to save as many lives as possible. But we all do have our opinion. So I myself, I appreciate my community. I've gotten some folks not I've gotten folks vaccinated, but definitely have vaccination drives. But on the flip side of that, man, there's a lot of people that have seen so many different health defects from taking the vaccination. Some vaccinations take years to come up with, we got this thing in a matter of months. I've seen people very, very sick people, okay. And healthy before, and then seeing them very sick afterwards. I don't know if I want to be a person who necessarily votes to say, yeah, we should give people money right now to make them take something that we don't fully understand.  And that's just from my perspective, does I have to put it on record.  for just me, Ben, what is that, but I am what I've read, I've taken the time to read the government documents on the patent for this thing, I sent it to a lot of different individuals. You know, you can believe what you would like to believe. But we've seen proof of some very, very nasty things happening. I'm, I'm in support of Alderwoman Hubbard, and what it is that she likes to bring to our community as far as what it is we've been waiting for some type of something that we can hold on to the service, something that can save us as this continues and maybe gets worse. But I and I would have just said no. But I don't want to just say no without being able to articulate why I wouldn't be in support of this. Because it's extremely important to know why I can't be in support. And not just saying no, everybody should have their own opinion. But I support Alderwoman hubback. She is very genuine and everything that she does and what it is she would like to do, and bring to our community. But in some things, we all do have certain opinions, this is something that we've all been very close to is very near and dear to us, people have watched people that watch my father not remember my name for an entire week, on his deathbed with COVID. So I this is a very, very serious thing. So I will never ever tell people as a whole what they shouldn't do. But I do have to when my communities in places like this where money is something we've been asking for for some time. And there's a way where you can, you know, help yourself and you see your representative saying notice some things. I'll be remiss when Mr. Knight, say why it is in this particular setting, I wouldn't be able to support this, this legislation, do believe there's a lot of things we need to read, and a lot of things we need to learn. And folks need to really, really make informed decisions on this. And then supervision can deter you from logically thinking about the long term effects because short term, we need short term relief. And you know that it's just the show. So with that, I appreciate it and I yield the floor. Thank you very much Alderwoman

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  2:49:41
Thank you. Thank you all one from the 17th one from the 17th There you go.

Tina "Sweet T" Pihl, 17th ward Alderwoman  2:50:00
Thank you, Mr. President and members of the board. Alderwoman from the 26th yield to question

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  2:50:07
all 16 year old one from 17, please proceed.

Tina "Sweet T" Pihl, 17th ward Alderwoman  2:50:12
Yes. Thank you, Alderwoman. From those 26, I support this amendment. And thank you for bringing it forward. And I just wanted to just make a note, something that Alderwoman Schweitzer from 13th mentioned, I just wanted to add, if and if you use a credit card, or debit cards are bought at once Just an FYI. They have an expiration date. And so if they just sit around for a while, just an FYI, they could expire. And I just think that's something of note, if they're not handed out, so they have to have an expiration date and stated on the card.

Shameem Clark-Hubbard, 26th ward Alderwoman 26  2:50:56
Thank you.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  2:51:00
All right, thank you, alderman from the 22nd.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  2:51:07
Thank you, Mr. President, members aboard,  I just want to point something out that the one from a 13 said she wants to bring some awareness and making a comparison to this in relationship to direct assistance. I'm not sure if there's a direct comparison there, because these funds are to mitigate COVID-19, the African American community at large have been hit by a far greater than any community. And so why I'm always hesitant about just free government giveaways. You know, this is something that could save somebody's life. I mean, seriously, and if we can encourage them to get vaccinated by giving them I don't know what the dollar amount may be $50, or whatever, you know, I think that's much more greater than the other program. And this is something I could honestly support, you know, more so than the target assistance of $500. Because this right here, this government giveaway can actually save lives, not just one life, but stop that one person for potentially infecting a whole bunch of other people because all it takes one to kill 100 potential with this deadly virus.  So I am totally in support of alderman from the 26th. Ward. Again, I'm not sure that it's a fair comparison as respectively, as the alderman from the 13th pointed out, because this can really truly save lives. And we have a lot of wraparound services to help people with food insecurities, and, and rental and payment assist rental assistance, mortgage assistance to keep them housed. And to keep the lights on. So I just want to say that, again. Thank you all for the 26 for bringing this forward, and definitely supporting this. And that's all I have Mr. President.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  2:53:11
Oh Alderwoman from the 15th. Thank you, alderman 22nd.

Dr. Megan Green, 15th ward Alderwoman  2:53:16
Thank you, Mr. President, members of the board. also want to thank Alderwoman from the 26. for bringing this forth.  I think this is very important for me and to increase vaccination rates to incentivize vaccination rates. As many of you know, I contracted COVID in December. And I didn't get better. I was sick for a long time. And vaccines can note can not only keep somebody from getting COVID or keep somebody who does get COVID from getting very sick. They're also being found to help people like me, who developed something called long COVID. For months after COVID, and I'm still dealing with this. I am in a category of people who now have something called long COVID where we have symptoms that don't go away. That we have relapses that, you know, quite frankly, I don't know if I will ever be physically back to the way that I was before I contracted this. But what I do know is getting that vaccine put me much closer to how I was before contracted COVID-19 and it has done that for a lot of folks. A lot of people who have who have had COVID who are in that long haul category. When they get their first dose of the vaccine. They get very sick and I was very sick for five days, I could not get out of bed after I got that first shot of the COVID vaccine. But slowly over the next two weeks, I got better, and I got better, and I got better. And over those next few weeks, I got to a point where I almost started to feel like myself again. And I really hope that as a body, we can be working to encourage vaccination, that we recognize that there are a lot of very legitimate reasons for vaccine hesitancy, and that we use our platforms that we have to break down some of the reasons for that hesitancy because it can save lives.  And it can impact the quality of life of people who have already contracted COVID, and who are dealing with the long term repercussions of it the long term impact of it. Because there are a lot of us out there that I have found who are still dealing with this months and months and months afterwards. And, and so I think, the Alderwoman for for bringing this forth, not just as a preventative measure, but also as a way to help folks who have already contracted COVID, who may be dealing with long term symptoms like I've been dealing with, because this is also a mechanism to help deal with some of those long term symptoms and get some relief. So thank you for bringing this forward. I greatly appreciate it. And I I hope as a body, we can really work together to increase vaccination rates, and decrease vaccine vaccination hesitancy within our city.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  2:56:50
Thank you all one. Although I think alderman from the 25th as it's open your message from the 25th.

Shane Cohn, 25th ward Alderman  2:57:06
Thank you, Mr. President. I was just having a discussion actually, with my colleague from the 26th Ward and would like to offer a friendly amendment, you know, just to ensure that we're targeting the right population here, want to offer a friendly amendment to insert an effective date. So this incentive would be effective or starting on the date of passage of the bill and going forward so that folks that have been previously vaccinated, we wouldn't be retroactive, actively incentivizing folks going forward. And so want to make sure that we're targeting the right population for incentives.

Shameem Clark-Hubbard, 26th ward Alderwoman 26  2:57:57
So we don't want people to come back and try to just get the card and that you know, thank you. So my colleague, for bringing it

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  2:58:12
on from the twice 25th. How would you like to offer up the amendment and say where that line would be in the bill? If you don't have it? Ready? We can come back to you. 

Shane Cohn, 25th ward Alderman  2:58:28
Yeah, you'll have to come back to me. I don't have it pulled up at the moment. Okay. All right. Sounds good. Thank you. Welcome. alderman from the 22nd.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  2:58:44
alderman from the 22nd. All in all, one from the first.

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  2:58:51
Mr. President, members of the board, there were some members who expressed, apprehend apprehension about the cards expiring. When you put things out to bed, there can be cards that do not start until you actually use it the first time, those will be all the kinds of things that you would put in the bid to make sure that we wouldn't have a stack of cards sitting up there that would just expire. So that would be part of the perimeters that you would see. And there's also a way if you contact these cards that people haven't used them that you can turn those in and get new cards, so we will not be wasting federal or city monies.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  2:59:27
Thank you. Very good point. Thank you all. Back from the 22nd. Odd one from the first you stub your hand up. I don't know if any further discussion any further discussion. Mr. President, oh, yes, sorry. I
 
