---
layout: post
title: "6 11 21 BOA (Hilton Tax Abatement)"
categories: speeches
---


[VIDEO LINK](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VAOxA53-KM0&)

6-11-21 | Board of Aldermen Meeting | (Hilton Tax Abatement)...
Fri, 6/11 4:41PM • 1:48:10
SUMMARY KEYWORDS
alderman, resolution, louis, abatement, hotel, personal property tax, city, downtown, president, property tax abatement, board, woman, question, facilities, move, pandemic, corrections, hilton, recognize, present
SPEAKERS
Cara Spencer, 20th ward Alderwoman, Shameem Clark Hubbard, 26th ward alderwoman, Shane Cohn, 25th ward Alderman, Sharita Rogers, Clerk, Dale Glass, Joe Vollmer, 10th ward Alderman, Bret Narayan, 24th ward Alderman, Joe Vaccaro, 23rd ward Alderman, Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman, Brandon Bosley, 3rd ward Alderman, Christine Ingrassia, 6th ward Alderwoman, Tina "Sweet T" Pihl, 17th ward Alderwoman, Jesse Todd, Alderman ward 18, Sarah Wood-Martin, 11th ward Alderwoman, Bill Stephens, 12th ward Alderman, Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman, Tom Oldenburg, 16th ward Alderman, Dr. Megan Green, 15th Ward Alderwoman, Marlene Davis, 19th ward Alderwoman, Lisa Middlebrook, 2nd ward Alderwoman, Heather Navarro, 28th ward Alderwoman, Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman, Annie Rice, Alderwoman ward 8, James Page, Alderman ward 5, Jack Coatar, 7th ward alderman, Anne Schweitzer, 13th ward Alderwoman, Carol Howard, 14th ward Alderwoman

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  00:04
Thank you STL TV, calling this meeting for Board of Aldermen to order Madam Clerk, please

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  00:12
call the roll out a woman sighs present on a woman Middlebrook present. alderman Bosley. alderwoman Evans present alderman Paige. Rosa. Are the woman in grassier

Marlene Davis, 19th ward Alderwoman  00:31
present.

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  00:33
alderman colder. Here. The woman rice. alderman Gunther. Here. alderman Vollmer. President. out one and Morgan. President. Ottoman Stevens. President. The woman sweitzer. Here powered by hour the woman green

Marlene Davis, 19th ward Alderwoman  01:01
president.

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  01:02
Ultimate Oldenburg. Here. The woman peel here adamantite. The woman Davis present the woman's fencin. Present. alderman Muhammad Ottoman Boyd, present. Ottoman Vaccaro present. alderman Ryan. Here. Me call the one o'clock cover here on one avoid the woman Navarro present president read. Here are the members on one of our presidents alderman Muhammad McComb on one invoice. 25 presents

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  02:15
a quorum being present before we begin today's meeting and we're going to be led in prayer by Reverend Ollie Sanders, the Assistant pastor of maple temple, right in the beautiful 18th Ward brought to us by none other than their great alderman Jesse ties. But before we fully begin that, I asked everybody, if you will join me in a moment of silence for judge Paul Simon, who was also formerly the President of the Board of Aldermen. Just advocate for all of St. Louis for so many years. He will be missed. So please join me in a moment of silence before we begin with prayer for Reverend Sanders, we're in your hands.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  03:24
That Bless you all in this morning. God bless you all. Thank you all for this opportunity to the president and board members. And let's go ahead with prayer on this morning if you can just quiet yourselves for a moment. And let's give reverence to God. God in the name of Jesus Lord, we thank you for this day and we thank you for a another day's journey and a new beginning. While we ask that you bless this session and is as is about to happen. Lord, we ask that you touch the President and the members and lower lead your way be done. Lord, let your will be done. Lord, let the movements that need to be made, we may let the conversations that need to be had we had and lower left the work of the city be done as well as the work of Kingdom building. Lord, we as a church, each individual in their respective places, help our minds to be free and clear and to help our hearts be able to do the work that needs to be done to connect to our minds to our souls. Well, we thank you for this day for your presence and your anointing. Upon this session. Bless every members that are here, and those who are watching and we ask that you just continue the work of this city and the kingdom building in the name of Jesus we pray, thank god and Amen.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  04:33
Amen. Thank you so much. Robin Sanders. Let's give him a big round of applause and thank you for your work and thank you for being with us this morning. All right, we're gonna suspend with our regular order of business to take up our Kersey resolutions calendar all of them from the 19th recognize on the motion for our courtesy resolutions council

Marlene Davis, 19th ward Alderwoman  04:59
minutes. President and members of the board, moved to adopt currency resolution calendar,

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  05:05
I can move on all along from the 19th seconded by all the men from the 22nd. All the woman from the 26th, to recognize,

Shameem Clark Hubbard, 26th ward alderwoman  05:15
thank you, Mr. President, members of the board, thank you for the opportunity this morning, I was trying to put together a surprise, we were working together with some colleagues. And I hope that he is surprised when he hears this this resolution number 37. It's for former commissioner Dale glass. And I was wanting to make sure that we did this because for me, it's about doing things these in that order. And I watch and I learn from people. And as a new alderperson, Mr. Glass was definitely a testimony and an example of doing things different in an order. And in his position, when if youcame to the city with 28 years of experience. So you can imagine what that meant for him to come here and then make the changes and then see the changes that he made, no matter how people felt, this changes his work. All of these things are physical, they are real, and they should be acknowledged. And so that's why I've learned and I listened to the changes that were made at the workhouse, through my colleague Alderwoman Davis. And I was going to start from myself. But not only that, and you can listen to comments back in public safety committee meeting, when I will call Commissioner glass when I was making my decisions about the positions in the places and spaces I wanted to be in about the workhouse, he always answer my call through everything he always answered  my call, and it wasn't yes or no answers. It was history. It was facts. It was background. And that is how you learn. That's how I feel that we should all learn. And then he always came and did his job. And if we all take an example of that when people do their jobs, even through turmoil, even through disagreements, even through everything we just asked in opposition to do our jobs, then then makes the difference that he made, I believe in corrections in the city of St. Louis. So that is why I wanted to introduce Resolution Number 37 for Mr. Dale glass this

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  07:16
morning. Right. Thank you. Thank you. Is Mr. glass with us.

Shameem Clark Hubbard, 26th ward alderwoman  07:24
He is where he's, he's he is leaving drive. And I asked him not to turn his camera on if he was driving, but he might he say he might pull over. So Commissioner glass and his beautiful wife. If you are there, pull over turn your camera over. Remember what I said if he didn't because he didn't know where he was coming to. But I did I want this was important. I think it's important that we show respect, and regard and celebrate people when they when it's due.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  07:54
Thank you alderwoman doing for the resolution. We had before we hear from Mr. Glass. Let's hear from some of the All in all men from 24th. Thank you, Mr. President. I was just going to move that we make this resolution en banc then move on alderwman the 24th seconded by Dalton from 23rd. That we make this resolution in bank All in favor signify by saying aye. Aye. hos. Motion carries. All the way from the 22nd.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  08:35
Yes, thank you, Mr. President, members aboard. And I just want to thank the owner from the 26th. I was actually interested in doing the resolution myself and I talked to Commissioner glass and he's just such a humble person. If you ever really get a chance to talk to him and me him like the alderwoman from the 26th said, I mean, he's just one the nicest guy, he's going to give you the truth, whether you want to hear it or not. He's going to do it with a smile. He's going to be a gentleman, again, he is has a wealth of knowledge. I'm certainly was saddened to hear that he was going to leave. But I know sometimes people just get thrown under the bus for the sake of change. And I'm just happy that he's going to enjoy his life, I think out in the country somewhere. But he stands not too far in my understanding from the city of St. Louis. So I feel blessed that I can still reach out and call them or connect with them at some time and maybe the sim if I take a drive out to the country, but I just can't say enough good things about former commissioner Dale glass myself, I think of all of them the alderwoman from the 26 just summed it up so well. And I'm just so excited and thrilled that she did this because I really think and thought that he deserved recognition for all the hard work he's done with with being over both facilities and with discipline. with the support of a good staff. And he will probably tell you that he did not do it by himself. Because that's the kind of person he is. He believes in shared leadership and everybody being held accountable, responsible. But one thing we all know is you can't regulate everybody's behavior. People are responsible for their own behaviors, but you can lead in a way that you encourage people to be successful in their endeavor. So I am just too excited for Commissioner Bell glass today. And again, I can't thank you alderwoman from the 26 enough for doing this. And I'm sure he's gonna appreciate it.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  10:35
Thank you all from 22nd element from the 23rd.

Joe Vaccaro, 23rd ward Alderman  10:40
tail. First off, can bless you and enjoy your retirement. This is probably coming from your originally your biggest critic, I was beating up on you at the beginning about everything, and turned out to be one of your biggest fans. After you did all the improvements in the work, you know, I can't say, you know, from where when you came in and where that started. And I just even Kim was like, Joe, you're beating up on this guy's a good guy. I'm like, No, we got to fix things. As things got fixed, and things are so much better. That you know, you turn your critics into your biggest fan than I am absolutely sad. To see you leave. You know, what's interesting is, I know you left on your own. But I still feel that you would have stayed had you not been put in a position that you were put in. But anyway, God bless you enjoy your retirement. I hope to join you soon. Let me know where that vacation home this, I'll come out and drink a mint julep or whatever. Whatever they do nowadays, anyway, God bless. Thank you. Thank you. 

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  12:13
Any further discussion, Any further discussion? All one for 19.

Marlene Davis, 19th ward Alderwoman  12:22
Thank you, Mr. President, and members of the board. You all have heard me over the years, talk about how we had some of the most experienced leadership in corrections here in the city of St. Louis. Over the years, we have gone through a lot trying to make those facilities somewhat adequate. But they took a giant leap, and not only made sure that all of the corrections were coming in the right place as far as improvements to facilities, but adding quality of life to those who had to be in those facilities. And at the end of the day, if we want to have better justice, then we need to do with deal with those things. It's not about the buildings, but it's about the justice system. And and they are proponents of helping us to understand how to change that as well. Dale glass came highly qualified, extremely qualified, and had been managing systems much larger than us. So I appreciate all that he brought. But sometimes we get in our own way, and we can't complete our task. having different courses in there, they work well together, they will respect it by the industry. And if you had ever had a chance to go to some of the regional meetings, or they had they brought their international convention here and talk to people from all over the world, you would know what we had here. But again, we get in our own way. So thank you, Dale, and I know the challenges that you had towards the end. It is really unfortunate that this is the the tone in which you had to exit, but you brought expertise. And that is critical. And I know that you and Jeffrey Carson is still going to communicate because that's who you are. And we will find our way hopefully, preferably if all of us get out of the way and that those experts do the job from the top to the bottom. Again, thank you again for all that you have done. Thank you, Mr. President.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  15:04
Thank you any further discussion, Any further discussion? All the way from the all along from the 26. Would you like to read the resolution sup to you into the record? Sure.

Shameem Clark Hubbard, 26th ward alderwoman  15:22
Resolution Number 37, honoring Mr. Dale glass, whereas Commissioner Dale glass came to the city of St. Louis division of corrections with 28 years of correctional experience after retiring as deputy warden of the Missouri Department of Corrections facility in Pacific, Missouri. And whereas during his tenure with the city, Commissioner Glass implemented meaningful changes for detainees and staff at both the city Justice Center and a medium security institution. He also focused on ensuring that the division was more transparent, creating a public dashboard for detainees statistics, providing an inmate locator and posting all contracts, policies and procedures and other parts in it documents on the city's website. And whereas reentry services for detainees was a top priority for Commissioner glass during his time at the division. In the first few weeks on his job, he implemented the transition from jail to community in initiative with the St. Louis Alliance for re entry store. And whereas Commissioner glass also partner with slate to prison to prosperity program p2p designed to offer resources to detainees being released from question correction system. Some noted speakers of the program including Mayor slay police chief Dotson, Senator jamilah, Nasheed and state representative Bruce Franks Jr. And whereas other re entry initiatives that included the addition of a full time discharge and aftercare planner, to the inmate health care services contract and a partnership with Integrated Health Network in the relief program, and whereas Commissioner glass was responsible for an agreement with the St. Louis University to provide occupational therapy services to detainees. He also brought aboard volunteers to support diversion programs such as the 22nd started treatment court and mental health docket. And whereas he addressed safety and security concerns on multiple fronts, he was responsible for the installation of new surveillance equipment at both facilities, and expanded capabilities such as digital programs and Bishop video recording Commissioner glass work to provide opportunities for custody staff to be certified in various roles through the American correctional Association and American jail Association. And whereas Commissioner glass work to address physical plant issues, physical plant issues at both facilities to increase the safe health and welfare of staff and detainees projects, including plumbing, hv AC, electrical and building automation system upgrades, now therefore, be it resolved by the Board of Aldermen and bank at the city of St. Louis, that we pause in our deliberations to recognize and recognize the many words and contributions of Mr. Derrick last week further directly to the clerk of the board to spread a copy of this resolution across the minutes of these proceedings, and prepare a commemorative copy to the end that it may be presented to him at a time and place deemed appropriate by the sponsor. And I do I would be remiss if I did not recognize because nobody just jumped out of this, I would like to Miss Kim Maloney, if she's on the call, thank you so much. And Charlene thinking, if she's listening and thank you so much. Again, the works like out of my voice there, we know that he's probably going to do it on his own. But just the endearment they have for him, shows that the work, again has been done and will hopefully continue to be done most especially the mental health piece, but I know that he was working hard on it around the time that he left.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  19:09
Thank you alderwoman that was a great presentation. I just want to before we hear from Mr. Glass, I just want to tell you, you know, as you know, this resolution is the highest honor board has to give any organization individually. And what it does it commits some of your works up until this time into the permanent records of the city of St. Louis. So one or 200 years from now. When people research the records in the city, St. Louis, they will be able to read your story Dale glasses story and know that you've passed this way and you've made a significant enough contribution to the city that we pause in our deliberations today to recognize you. We have given these resolutions out but I think this is one of them. The most consequential ones, because of the way things unfolded. That it is, you know, I'm just proud that we have solidly documented your contributions for history. So people understand who and what they are glass was and what you've done for the city of St. Louis. So congratulations, Mr. glass on a job well done. Let's give him this glass. You're up? Can you hear me presently? Yes,

Dale Glass  20:42
thank you, I truly appreciate it and accept all the kind words with humility. And as was pointed out, I could not do by myself, there are a lot of good people that work in the Division of corrections. Last month, the first week of May, was actually corrections week established by President Reagan in the middle 80s. So the people that work there, listen to me Follow my lead, and did a lot to try to transform the division of corrections, I would say to you that I have spoken with and communicated with a number of people on the board. And I've appreciated at every time, not a lot of people want to talk about the field of corrections. But I appreciate that opportunity, I have great respect for you all, anyone that would dedicate their time and efforts to do the work that you do. I will also say that the honor is mine. My my life philosophy, your goal is to a the least of these. And and you gave me opportunity by working in corrections, to put my beliefs in action. And so I appreciate it greatly. I know you guys will be fine. This time, I'm gonna try to get my retirement correct. And stay on it. And my wife's already told me to go back to work. But I'm gonna try to resist that. Right now. I've been spending time with my great granddaughter, trying to explain to her why her great grandfather can't get on the floor with her and crawl. So I do appreciate it. And I thank you. And I'll probably won't be able to resist tuning in to see how the city continues to progress. Thank you so much for the honor.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  22:36
Thank you. Thank you. All the words from the 26th to recognize the close.

Shameem Clark Hubbard, 26th ward alderwoman  22:44
Thank you again, thank you so much for taking the time out Commissioner glass. And coming on. Like you say this is a this isn't a warm and fuzzy corrections rather isn't the warm and fuzzy thing nobody chooses to begin and but they are when you make bad decisions. And I again, I was talking about this commission glands have a personal testimony. And man, it does make a difference when in the rehabilitation of people when they go into corrections if the system is working right and working properly. And you came in and you write it a lot of wrong. And you were good. And you did a good job at it. So thank you so much. And thank you for president Reid and for my colleagues for coming together on this resolution.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  23:24
Congratulations, Dale. Enjoy. Joy, your brief retirement to your wife. It forces you to go. Thanks. Thanks and enjoy the rest of your day. And tell your wife we apologize and appreciate the fact that she let us take some more your time today as you all are on a trip. Thank you. It's been moved and seconded that we adopt our currency resolutions calendar All in favor signify by saying aye. Aye. Aye So moved motion carries that we're currently in business. And our guests Yes. Any introduction? Monique? Yes.

24:18
Oh, from the 23rd Let me get my camera right. As always, I have my friend Greg Meyer, if I enter guests,

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  24:31
any further reductions in further reductions all the way from the 10th like to wrap up.

Joe Vollmer, 10th ward Alderman  24:43
Thank you, Mr. President, members of the board, as we're gathered here today on June 11 2021. In 1982, on this day, the movie et was released. But more importantly, this is National corn on the cob day, which is starting in 44 BC by Mark Anthony when he said to Julius Caesar funeral friends Romans and countrymen, lend me your ears

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  25:10
that's a good brother minutes.

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  25:17
Approval of the minister dated June 4 2021.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  25:21
All in front of 10th you recognize on the motion for approval of the minutes.

25:26
Famous present members board I move we approve the minute the minutes from June 4 2021 second man boo baton from Tim second Yvonne from 23rd discussion.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  25:40
All in favor signify by saying aye. Aye. Pose motion carries report to city officials

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  25:47
and city officials can be found in a B and C are the agenda has been placed in the Ottomans mailboxes,

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  25:53
dispenser line item seven within an email I take any bills or any resolutions offer any of our informal counters anyone like taking bills or resolutions offer any of our informal counts. We would dispense with line items seven through 10 personally read the board bills

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  26:14
Board Bill 52 sponsored by all the one dispenser and ordinance approving a redevelopment plan dated May 25 2021. For the 3834 Virginia Avenue area, Board Bill 53 sponsored by President reading out a woman Davis an ordinance pertaining to the transit sales tax imposed pursuant to Section nine 4.660. Revised Statutes I'm sorry as adopted by the voters of the St. Louis city on August the second 1994 pursuant to ordinance 63168. Creating the city public transit sales tax Trust Fund, directing the treasurer of the city of St. Louis to deposit funds received pursuant to state sales tax into the city public transit sales tax Trust Fund account one appropriate and $23,000 complainant a severability and an emergency clause. Board Bill 54 sponsored by President Reed and alderwoman Davis ordinance appropriating the sum of $20,110,000 just as described in Section nine 4.600 through nine 4.655 was that Revised Statutes or Missouri 2000 as amended for the period here and stated which some is hereby appropriated out of the transportation Trust Fund to the Bi State Development Agency for transportation purposes contain the severability and an emergency clause Board Bill 55 sponsored by President Reed and alderwoman Davis and ordinance pertaining to the transit sales tax imposed pursuant to Section nine 4.660 as adopted by the voters of the city of St. Louis, on November 4 1997, pursuant to ordinance 64111, creating the city public transit sales tax Trust Fund, directing the treasurer of the city of St. Louis to deposit funds received pursuant to say a sales tax into the city public transit sales tax Trust Fund account to appropriate and $7,523,000 from the state sales tax for the period here and stated in the by State Development Agency, for certain purposes contain the severability and emergency clause. Board bill 56 sponsored by Alderwoman Middlebrook, an ordinance recommended by the Board of Public Service to conditionally vacate above circuit surface and subsurface rights for vehicle equestrian and pedestrian travel in city Blackboard 233 as bounded by four dates after Israel route and absolute and the city of St. Louis Missouri as hearing after described in accordance with charter authority and in conformity with section one four of Article 21 of the charter and imposing certain conditions on such vacation or Board Bill 57 sponsored by auto encoder and an ordinance recommended by the Board of Public Service to conditionally vacate above surface surface and subsurface rights for vehicle equestrian and pedestrian travel and the Ninth Street between Cole Street and Dr. Martin Luther King drive in the city of St. Louis, Missouri as hinted here and after described in accordance with charter authority and in conformity with section one of Article 21 of the charter and imposing certain conditions on such vacation Board bill 58 sponsored by all the warning signs and ordinance recommended by the parking commission making appropriation for the payment of the operating expenses, capital expenses, including lease purchase agreements and debt service expenses of the parking division of the treasurer's office for fiscal year July 1 2021 through June 30 2022 in the summer of $17,773,082, including $1,367,290 for capital improvements, containment and emergency class that is to expand on first reading of board bills.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  30:06
Reference to committee.

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  30:08
So the Neighborhood Development Committee board Bill 52. To Ways and Means  board Bill 53 54 and 55  back to the streets committee board Bill 56 57 and 58. That is the extent of reference to committees the following board board it was reported out with a due pass recommendation. board bill, 24 sponsored by Alderman Todd, an ordinance recommended by the Planning Commission on May 5 2020. wants to change the zoning of property as indicated on the district map from G local, commercial and office district to h area commercial district and city block 4575 so as to include the described parcels of land and city block 4575. And the following bills were born out of Neighborhood Development with a do pass recommendation board bill seven sponsored by Alderwoman Davis ordinance approving a redevelopment plan dated January 26 2021, for the 50 to 58 South vandeman Avenue area board bill eight sponsored by alderman Vaccaro  an ordinance proven applied in study and a redevelopment plan for 3018. Watson road redevelopment area Board Bill 25. Sponsored by alderwoman Clark hubbard an ordinance approving a blyden study and a redevelopment plan for 5256 Vernon Avenue redevelopment area. the following board bill was out of health and human services with a do pass recommendation board Bill 30 committee stuff passing by all the woman and grassier and ordinance authorizing the Department of Health to accept Centers for Disease Control and Prevention foundation award funding of 20,800 through a contract with the National Environmental Health Association containing an emergency clause that is this extent a second reading report of standing committees. President reed youre Muted

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  30:24
second read

Dr. Megan Green, 15th Ward Alderwoman  30:56
will dispense with line item 14 through 16/3. Reading consent,

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  32:11
board bill

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  32:17
Alderman from the 10th you recognize on the motion for a third reading consent, calendar. Thank you, Mr. President, members board I move that we adopt the third reading Consent Calendar move along from 10th second and second a discussion it's been moved around from 10th seconded by alder from 22nd that we third read and finally pass on third reading consent column out court please call the roll

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  32:45
out of woman's eyes. Out of the middle group. I add a woman Evans hi out a woman in rasiya admin coder Hi guys, I'm alderman Gunther. Hi. I out of one in one. Ottoman Stevens. I the woman sweitzer out one Howard. High on one grain. Alright. Number one appeal adamantite

Marlene Davis, 19th ward Alderwoman  33:55
Hi.

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  33:57
out a woman Davis. Out of women Spencer. Alright. automate Muhammad Ottoman boy, I automate Vaccaro I mean Ryan automate comm All right. Out of one o'clock hover. I boy. The woman Navarro president re Ottoman Basu all the women I thank you. Woman Evans All the women in Grazia I on one appeal I can hear her saying I better guess your mics not working.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  35:25
Okay you can see her

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  35:29
automate Muhammad all the Wonderboy. 26 votes.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  35:39
My vote is stain motion on from 10th and third read and finally pass the aforementioned bill. Third read in front of engrossment

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  35:50
would be oh nine.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  35:52
All other business be spending present shallow and open session the fixes signature here to to the end that these may become locked. first read the resolution

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  36:24
39 sponsored by ultimate Gunther FTC warehouse Inc, in the city of St. Louis, enhance enterprise out

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  36:32
alderman from the ninth youre recognized on first reading resolution 39. Thank you, Mr. President. I ask that we move the resolution 39. To committee. Would you like to send it to HUDZ? Yes, please. It's been moved by the alderman from the ninth that we signed resolution 39 and 100 and attained a second on that motion packet. I'm sorry I spoke over someone.

37:02
All right, good. Thank

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  37:03
you all one from the 12th It's been moved and seconded that we sign resolution 39 to hudz. Any discussion? All in favor signify by saying aye. Aye. Aye. hos motion carries. Now please make notes on resolution 39.

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  37:27
So noted

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  37:32
second reading. committee reports.

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  37:36
Resolution 12 sponsored by Alderman Coatar, recommend the city of St. Louis Port Authority provide personal property tax abatement and a sales tax exemption on construction material for RS STL Arch LLC

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  37:52
aldermen from the seventh. Recognize on the second reading resolution 12. 

Jack Coatar, 7th ward alderman  37:57
Thank you, Mr. President, members of the board, I moved to final pass resolution 12 sandbar own from the 10th and the 22nd. From the seventh please proceed. Thank you, Mr. President, members of the board. Resolution Number 12 is a personal property tax abatement and a sales abatement on sales tax from construction materials for the small Hilton hotel located at fourth and olive this is the not the big ballpark Hilton, this is the smaller Hilton up the streets right in the corner. It's an alternative, short kind of high rise. It's an old bank. This is a deal that was negotiated with sldc. And myself and I guess the previous administration and passed to the Port Authority. It's one of our first abatements to the Port Authority and per our expansion of the Port Authority. last session was agreed upon that any abatements coming to the Port Authority would then come to the Board of Aldermen in the form of resolution, which is what we're doing here. It was reviewed by sldc. Jonathan Ferry scord us 4.75. out of five, the total incentives about $400,000 on an eight and a half million dollar renovation this hotel. The goal is to keep this hotel flagged as a as a full service Hilton under the new ownership. It certainly had its challenges with pandemic and then frankly, it's just sort of reaching its lifespan. I believe the rooms are about 20 years old. The new owners made, you know, made this request to the city.  You know, we started talking about this, I guess early pandemic. And here we are today. You know, I'm keeping my word and my commitment to this project and to what was agreed upon with the developer. And so I'm asking for everyone's support on this. Again, it's about a $400,000 incentive package, which $125,000 the personal property tax exemption, which is basically on the fixed the new fixtures and everything in the building, and then the rest of the incentive is is, you know, the sales tax abatement on construction materials. With that, I'm happy to answer any questions and would ask for your favorable consideration on resolution 12.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  40:20
From 15th, you're recognized.

Dr. Megan Green, 15th Ward Alderwoman  40:25
Thank you, Mr. President, members of the board, I rise in opposition to this today, I think that there's a couple of things that we need to take into consideration when discussing this today, I think one of the things that we need to make sure that folks that this body recognizes that there is currently a 20 year property tax abatement on this hotel, and there's four years left on that, that abatement, this is a personal property tax abatement and an abatement on the sales, tax construction supplies, and what I mostly take issue with is the personal personal property tax abatement piece. Because when we're talking about that personal property tax abatement piece, we're talking about updating carpets, and drapes, and, and mini fridges and things like that within these within the hotel rooms. And when the developer spoke at the Port Authority meeting and talked about the this refresh that was going to happen to these hotel rooms, they were asked, you know, how long does a typical refresh, you know, last for, and they said, you know, about eight to 10 years, and, and so what's going to end up happening here is we do this, and then they come forth, in another 10 years, and they asked for another one of these because then it's it's time for another 10 year refresh. And I think that we're giving something, you know, to a major corporation here to do a refresh of their facilities that we do not extend to the average homeowner in our city. We don't extend this courtesy to folks who need to update their own carpets and drapes and refrigerators and, you know, interiors of their homes. Um, I you know, I think that this is I think that we have an opportunity to be doing a reset at the moment and, and be more intentional about the allocation of these incentives. The other thing that that I, you know, am struggling with on this, in particular, is in order for an abatement to be granted. There's supposed to be some sort of blight. And under state law, you know, there's a there's a pretty, you know, well, it's a pretty vague definition of blight. You know, there is a definition of Blight. And, and I, you know, I have to think that a hotel that is still operable, that people are, are booking rooms in for, you know, around $200 a night is not not something that is blighted. And that you know, well, I do recognize that the hotel industry, the hospitality industry has had a difficult last year because of the pandemic, we are on the rebounding edge of that the hospitality industry is starting to come back up. I you know, I think that this is premature, especially given their their currently existing property tax abatement. And, and so with that, I'm I will, you know, I will rest today, but I'm opposed to this, because I think that they're already receiving enough support. And, and I don't think that we need to be continuing to to subsidize them in other ways.

44:09
Thank you.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  44:10
Thank you. Alderwoman from the eighth.

Annie Rice, Alderwoman ward 8  44:15
Thank you, Mr. President, members of the board, and with the ultimate from the seventh yield for questions and the resolution. From the seventh. We have questions and all the ones for me.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  44:24
Yes. Alderwoman from the eighth. Please proceed.

Annie Rice, Alderwoman ward 8  44:27
Thank you. And thank you, alderman. Um, there was some question raised about the the assessment of the property having dropped over the last year. We've gotten word I think from the assessor's office that there were some declines in assessments to all hotels downtown. I think that was what that came through because of the pandemic. And so I'm wondering if the if the assessment on the property dropped 23% over the last year, or they're already going to be some tax savings there to this ownership group that they might be able to use to put in, at least for, you know, to to move that money into purchasing some, you know, the the new equipment or the new furnishings?

Jack Coatar, 7th ward alderman  45:14
I can't speak to the proper the real property tax, any decrease in the value? I'm not familiar with that. I know that, you know, as recently as two months ago, this project was analyzed and approved and both sldc and The previous administration, I determined this, this was a good worthy project, whether or not some savings on on real estate because of the decrease in value. I can't speak to that.

Annie Rice, Alderwoman ward 8  45:46
Is there is there any willingness on the part of the of the developer to remove the personal property tax abatement and just go with the sales tax abatement? I think, I think the the personal property tax abatement is what is I think, the most distasteful, maybe when when this is being looked at, from folks on the outside, and that, you know, like the older woman from the 15th side, you know, renovations on on homes and furnishings and things are not are not generally what we, what we have Bates, is, is there any chance of revisiting this and only working on the sales tax there?

Jack Coatar, 7th ward alderman  46:21
I mean, that's going to be up to I guess, the developer [inaudible] is going to need a final approval by the Port Authority, it's going to be up to the owner and the Port Authority. I mean, I can tell you that, you know, in my time here, when when you when you commit to doing something and you agree to a certain incentive package, you know, I'm not going to change the rules and people midstream, despite, you know, by with the mayor's office wants to do so, you know, that's something they want to discuss them they can, but as it stands here today, now, this came unanimously out of the HUDs committee was approved by sldc. And that will be intending to move forward with a vote. I mean, whether or not there's some, you know, future of renegotiation of this deal. That's going to be up to room 200.

Annie Rice, Alderwoman ward 8  47:02
Okay. All right. Thank you for answering questions. I appreciate it. And I at this point, I'm going to need to be a no on this resolution as well, for all of the aforementioned reasons, but thank you for bringing it forward. And hopefully we can find a way forward, I suppose, keep the hotel functioning and do the best work in the interest of our taxpayers. Thanks.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  47:26
All women from the 12th? Yes, Mr. President, with the ultimate from the seventh yield to questioning all the men from the seventh will yield the question to all women from the 12. Yes, all men from 12, please proceed.

Bill Stephens, 12th ward Alderman  47:42
Thank you, Mr. President, the board and thank you all during from the seventh, I want to preface this with I appreciate the tenacity that you're bringing to this to the project, you dedicate yourself, not dedicate yourself to, but that you, you agreed to present and you're sticking to it. And I appreciate that, you know, I do appreciate that. In your brief statement introducing this resolution, you noted that some of the rooms, if not all of the rooms are about 20 years old, you know, so on so forth, give, give or take a few years. Can you tell us how many rooms? What room capacity, this Hilton has by chance? It's a bit of a left field question. I understand. But 

Jack Coatar, 7th ward alderman  48:18
I don't know the key count on this hotel. Give me a second. 

Bill Stephens, 12th ward Alderman  48:23
Okay. And if that's, you know, you don't have to dig through any emails or anything of the sort. I just want a rough idea of the sort of size and capacity of this location, which is 400. Olive correct.

Jack Coatar, 7th ward alderman  48:36
Yeah, it's $400. I'm trying to get you a room count. I just don't remember. Okay,

Bill Stephens, 12th ward Alderman  48:42
I appreciate it. And I will not submit questions to you while you're trying to answer my first. 

Jack Coatar, 7th ward alderman  48:58
No, go ahead What else you got? I'm trying to find this.

Bill Stephens, 12th ward Alderman  49:01
Okay. And I appreciate your due diligence in that. And please know that a rough estimate will also suffice for for my purposes for my question.  You know, even if they're 20 years old, one thing I want to point out that they'll have as amenity is air conditioning, right? That's something that we don't have at City Hall, for example. And as I look at photos of the interior aldermen from the seventh, I mean, we've got marble floors, we have updated lighting, we have all these other things, and I look at these photos. And then I look in my neighborhood, which is one of the most beautiful wards in the entire city. I'm absolutely biased. I cannot present that as fact, but it's true. And I look at my neighbors who are having issues keeping their air on or paying their personal property tax. And I just think that I mean, this is a Hilton alderman from the seventh that we're offering a tax break to and yes, the pandemic was, was insurmountable in some ways and for numerous industries, but As I look at the Proposed resolution, and as I look at these, these photos of the interior, some of which are available on their website, so on so forth. I, I cannot support this, you know, and were it a truly blighted area, I think I could throw my support behind it.  And I resend my question for the number of rooms all the way from the seventh. Again, I appreciate your due diligence, but we're offering a tax break to a Hilton. A very nice Hilton from the available shots that this that this hotel is providing the public. And I just I'm sorry, I can't support that. WHILE, my neighbors are having issues putting food on their table. while, my neighbors are having issues keeping their air on. And you're asking me to provide a tax break for for a hotel. So I stand in opposition, and I'm gonna be hard pressed to be swayed alderman from the seventh. I yield back to the board.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  51:02
All right. Thank you all the men from the 12th all men from that 23rd. 

Joe Vaccaro, 23rd ward Alderman  51:09
I just have a question. So, and this is a resolution. But do we even have I know it comes back to the Board of Aldermen. But whether we pass this or not, doesn't SLDC, dont they  They have the authority to do this with or without us. They just my understanding when we did this, because I know I hesitated when we did it. That even though it comes back to the board, it doesn't really matter what we say. Like, for instance, if this fail, they'll still go forward with it, I assume. Is that to me ultimate?

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  51:56
to anybody? I'm just learning. Alderman from 23rd. Would you like to all the men from the 70 yield to questions? That's fine, or if you can explain that. I just was curious when we when we did this board bill. We will if you? If you have a question. I can ask that. Although that was a question whether we hold on  a second Alderman from the 23rd. Would you like to ralderman from the second to for question? Yes. From the summary of the question. And Ptolemy, from 23rd. Yes, I

Joe Vaccaro, 23rd ward Alderman  52:32
will. I'm very pleased to see. That's right. And and that was welcomed to anyone. And Curiously, when we passed this last year for sldc, to be able to basically offer tax incentives in an area. I don't even know I don't think I voted on it, but it doesn't doesn't matter. So it just fails or passes. Does that even make any difference? Yeah, I

Jack Coatar, 7th ward alderman  53:00
believe it does. So you may recall, we had a healthy debate about expanding the boundaries of the Port Authority. And part of the deal was basically, while the port authority under state law can go ahead and approve abatements under Chapter 68. And it has the ability to do that. As part of the expansion, we agreed that those would come to the board for approval. So I suppose theoretically, they could ignore you know, this body and then move forward even if we didn't pass the resolution. But I don't I don't think the Port Authority would do that. I think if we vote this down, they will not approve the final abatement. I don't I don't think that's going to happen. I think we've set a dangerous precedent if we did one thing, and then they did the opposite. I don't envision that happening.

Joe Vaccaro, 23rd ward Alderman  53:43
Okay. It was more curious and more just a learning thing for me. Thank you. Thank you. All the woman from the 17th. All the one from the 70.

Tina "Sweet T" Pihl, 17th ward Alderwoman  54:03
Thank you, Mr. President, and the board. Can you hear me this time? Great. I'd like to rise and I am concerned with this particular abatement and sales tax exemption. The reason is that the Hilton has made over $800 million in the first quarter of this year. And so they strongly have funds to be able to do this in terms of updating the interior of this hotel. So I really am concerned regarding having an abatement again because Hilton has made $800 million this quarter. Thank you.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  54:50
Thank you all on all on for 19.

Marlene Davis, 19th ward Alderwoman  54:55
Thank you, Mr. President, members of the board. I just want to To give clarity to a number of statements that have been made, and then I'm going to make a request at the end. Understanding the blighting premise, it includes more than if there are buildings that are to deteriorated, which we do have a number of them in the downtown area. And that's why it meets the test. We also have a number of vacancies inside those buildings that are occupied with businesses. So that is another indicator on blight. We also have another indicator on blight as how that area is as far as crime and a number of other things in meets that indicator, because it's horrific,  we also know that in in that particular census tract, it meets the indicator of blight because there are large number of affordable units in that area, as well as section eight certificates that have been issued in the area.  When we get back to another reason why moving from the further definition of blight, that area downtown, we've gone through a lot of extensive planning to try to accommodate some type of convention tourism, improvement for the area, so that we can make more money in the city of St. Louis. We're not doing everything that we could do at this point. Because if you're only dealing with the refreshing of the rooms, if the gentleman made the statement that about every eight to 10 years, well, as we look at this, we know it's been sixteen years. So it's way overdue. And to have people return, you must have updated units. That's what people look for, when they go out of town, they rent a hotel room, they expect it to be updated. The other part to this as far as revenue, you can talk about somebody's bottom line, because you don't know everything that gets you to the bottom line. So they may have made $800 million. But we also know because we had almost no travel, and people were not renting hotel rooms, that there's a loss factor that there were employees who were laid off their jobs, and we're trying to get back on track. If you never ever provide any tax incentives, it is impossible for us to increase the revenue that comes into the general budget. And all those things that have been indicated that we should and could do for our residents. There's no money there to do it. Because you never want to have any new businesses. You don't want to assist other businesses and maintaining and growing. So that is that is not how economics works. You have too many other factors that you must consider. The last thing that I wanted to suggest to to you sir, for the body.  There is a training program that we can attend. And I would suggest that if we could find the funds that we do a number of alderpersons at a time for those of you who are interested to really understand how you prepare a development. So you will be trained on pre development, you'll be trained on the preparation of your performer. You'll be trained on the economics and how it affects the area that you're working in for that development, and also provides you with the understanding of the various departments that can assist you with effectiveness. Most of the people that are in our departments that do these analysis, they've already had that training. I was fortunate enough to have it as well. Jill, who retired from CDA, we actually took our training together. So I think that there's a lot to be understood. And I think that once all these analysis have been done, it's all right, obviously, all right to ask questions. But do you have all the facts, and we can't just operate on? Oh, woe is me, we've got to also look at the other side of what we do in the city of St. Louis, and make sure that as we move forward, we are providing opportunities for us to earn more money, so that we can do more on behalf of citizens. But if you never want to do that, you can't help anybody. So I thank you very much.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:00:48
Thank you all the woman from the 19th  alderman from the 16th. Thank you, Mr. President.

Tom Oldenburg, 16th ward Alderman  1:00:54
 Mr. President, with the ultimate from the seventh deal for some questions, please. order from the seventh will yield for question until all women from the 16th 

Jack Coatar, 7th ward alderman  1:01:03
Yes, 

Tom Oldenburg, 16th ward Alderman  1:01:05
only from the 16th. Please proceed. Thank you, Mr. President. Thank you, alderman. alderman do roughly have an idea of how many full time employees are at this location.  Yeah, it's I believe it's 50. FTS. And just to answer the, really the ultimate the 12th asked about the rooms, I had to look that up. There's 195 rooms,  195 keys 50 full time employees. Right, alderman just to clear up what I think is a lack of knowledge around maybe the hotel industry and real estate development associated with the hospitality industry. This is not to my knowledge, it would be very unique. If it is this is not a corporate Hilton owned facility. Right. This is real estate developer, a risk taker owner, who is just, quite frankly, purchased the flag from Hilton, which probably gives them access to the reservation system. This is not a building owned by Hilton and or operated by Hilton corporate, is it? 

Jack Coatar, 7th ward alderman  1:02:07
That's correct. [inaudible] owned by a group called rockbridge capital that buys frankly, distressed hotels and tries to turn them around. Yeah, no, I mean, it's not a it's not a corporate owned hotel. So yeah, I guess Hilton made $100 million last year, but they don't own this property, this group would pay Hilton for the right to have used the Hilton name and flag reservation system. And, frankly, that's one of the reasons we're doing this is we want this per the hotel study done pre pandemic in downtown, which calls for more more full service hotels and less discount hotels in the downtown marketplace. We're trying to keep one of our full service flagged hotels with with the name brand in the downtown market. 

Tom Oldenburg, 16th ward Alderman  1:02:50
Right. Right, which we know brings jobs associated with that. That's great. I think that that's helpful to me. Thank you. I think that should clear up some things. So if you're  I know it's certainly Vogue to make sure that you can put your thumb down around what's been called corporate welfare and an over subsidized business. But I think it's important distinction. If you were basing your vote solely on the fact that you think Hilton is saving pennies as a result of this. It's not it's a risk taker, a real estate developer who owns this piece. And Hilton is simply actually getting money as a result of this. And I can certainly I do want to speak to because it was it was mentioned that the hospitality industry is on the rebound. As someone who's very close to financing, hospitality assets and hotels that couldn't be further from the truth. In fact, hotels can even get debt at the moment right now. Because the outlook is dubious at best. So there needs to be a considerable amount of owner equity that's being put into any hotel facelift and hotel development right now. the hospitality industry is a large creator of jobs. And it is important that we incentivize risk takers, particularly in an industry that is incredibly hard hit  by the economic shield that associated with the with the pandemic. So I rise in full support of this alderman, I appreciate that the Port Authority is is move forward with this project. It's important to keep our brand and our hotels hope downtown. I assume that the convention in business. I don't know if you've talked to anyone there, but my guess would be that they're probably in full favor of this as well. I haven't I have nothing further. Thank you, Mr. President.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:04:37
I thank you all from the 16th all the way from the first

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  1:04:41
President and members of the board if the ultimate from the seventh year,

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:04:45
almost a year the questions and all the ones from the first. Yes.

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  1:04:53
And I believed this hotel was developed sometime in the 90s. Is that correct? Do you know?

Jack Coatar, 7th ward alderman  1:05:01
Although it was either the late 1990s or the early 2000s, I believe it was originally or Drew, I think Drury development. Right,

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  1:05:10
exactly. Um, and when did right what is who is it that you said owns it now Rockford capitali?  I believe it's rockbridge capital  rockbridge. And when did they purchase it?  Right before the pandemic? Okay. And so, and they purchased distressed properties. So this was already a hotel that wasn't living up to what we expect it to do even before print endemic, is that right?

Jack Coatar, 7th ward alderman  1:05:36
I mean, it was it was, you know, they purchased it with the understanding that it was going to need, you know, substantial renovations.

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  1:05:42
Okay. But and it already was well into the 20 year tax abatement, which had been originally granted, is that correct?  Correct.  Okay. And so, once they purchase it, you sit down with them and the prior administration, and you looked at, because when I think about people who buy distressed properties, they're looking to make a profit, which is nothing wrong with making profits. But that's exactly. They look for the most money. And so you sit down with these venture capitalists, and then you said, What can we do to help you? But they already had the property? When, when when you met with them, or did you meet with them prior to them? purchasing the property?

Jack Coatar, 7th ward alderman  1:06:28
Ah, no, I don't believe I'm trying to remember that series of events, Alderwoman it's been a while, but I don't believe I met with them until they closed on the property.

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  1:06:36
Okay. And so can you just tell me a little bit about how you came up with so they already had the 20 year property tax? What? Why was it I'm trying to understand your thought process about giving them property? I'm sorry, I'm sorry, personal property tax abatement. To to get new spreads, just for I'll just say refreshment. Why was that needed?

Jack Coatar, 7th ward alderman  1:07:01
I mean, it was a there was a gap in the in the financing, basically, they were able to borrow or spend a certain amount, and, you know, the renovations were going to cost x and they had, Y to spend and so to fill that gap. And to show that, you know, we're supportive of the of their efforts to rehab this hotel and keep it as a Hilton flag. This was the incentive package that was between myself, I sell these. Sorry, go ahead.

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  1:07:28
I'm sorry. No, no, no, I interrupted you. I'm so sorry.

Jack Coatar, 7th ward alderman  1:07:31
No, I was just saying that. So So through those negotiations, this is what we came up with. I mean, it was it was clear that, you know, extending the real property tax abatement was was going to be a non starter. So you know, we that was not on the table, we decided that we would move forward with, you know, a personal property tax exemption and a sales tax exemption on construction materials.

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  1:07:52
And how long do you How long was the personal property tax to be? 10 years?

Jack Coatar, 7th ward alderman  1:07:59
I believe it's 85% in the first five years, and then 50% in the second five.

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  1:08:05
Okay. And was this renovation required by Hilton in order for them to keep the name Hilton? Do you know?

Jack Coatar, 7th ward alderman  1:08:15
Yeah, they have to make upgrades to the property in order to keep it flagged as a full service bill. Okay,

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  1:08:22
and you said something about the Port Authority to chapter 88 could go ahead and prove abatement. And is that all abatement? Or is that just a property tax abatement? You know,

Jack Coatar, 7th ward alderman  1:08:34
alderwoman chapter 68, and there's a revised code is the Port Authority, the governing statutes, they the Port Authority is has the, you know, the states the state power to do real property tax abatements as well? Yes, it does.

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  1:08:51
So I'm sorry, cuz you kind of broke up a little bit so they can do real property and personal property under that. Is that what you're, you're understanding right. Okay. 

Jack Coatar, 7th ward alderman  1:09:00
Yes. 

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  1:09:01
Um, and do you know what the occupancy vacancy rate for this hotel was? pre pandemic and what it is now?

Jack Coatar, 7th ward alderman  1:09:10
I don't know what it was pre pandemic. I mean, I think the occupancy rate in most of our downtown hotels right now is hovering around 20% occupied.

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  1:09:23
And is there anything that they could be applying for revenue, this personal profit tax could because we all have been in this pandemic? Are there other sentence of ways to help the hotel perhaps through this money that's being put out for communities? Do you have have they tried any of that? Do you know?  I can't speak to that alderwoman, I don't know.  Okay. Um, so, I want to speak to a little bit by someone, one of the people who's one of our people say about you got to provide tax incentives. And I'm That sometimes tax incentives need I'm not one that supports that most of the times, but once in a while it is needed.  I guess my question is, but when does it end? When a lot of these I was here when this hotel started, most people weren't. And so we, when we came aboard on these things, they said, well, we're going to do this. And I mean, I want to go back to the 91. When I got here, they would talk about doing all these things so that we would then move on and not continue to keep having to do tax abatement after tax abatement after tax abatement. But that does not seem to be what is working out. When someone gets in distress, or when there's a problem, what seems to be the thing is that, well, let's just go back and find another tax abatement to give to that. So what do you ever envision where that we would say, No, it's too much of a tax abatement in this location and downtown, and maybe you need to look at something else? Or are we always committed to forever in a day to doing tax abatement? Whenever somebody gets in trouble, that we go to the city coffers? And say that well, okay, you're in trouble. And so in order to say this, we're going to find some kind of additional tax abatement, because I guess what I find somewhat disturbing is that they're still in their original 20 year tax abatement with four years left. And I know we let people fail all the time, grandmothers and grandparents and people who can't even pay their taxes, they lose their homes and their properties about not paying their taxes. And but it seems like businesses, and especially and this is not Wall Street, because this is a main street, I look at this more than Main Street, do we ever envision when we say enough is enough, and we've given you 20 year tax abatement, and you're just going to have to make it on your own, or you are going to have to go into your profit margin. Because you I think, the alderwoman from the 19th talk about that. This was not a Hilton. So Hilton profit is not really counted in that. But if you're a venture capitalist, and you're going out buying distressed properties, you do have a profit to you're not buying them to lose money. When do we set? Do you have an any kind of timeline on when we say no, or that's enough is enough? Or isn't that we continue to give tax abatement?

Jack Coatar, 7th ward alderman  1:12:22
Alderwoman it's a good question, you know, I wish I could sit here and say we're in a position with our with a strong core downtown, where, you know, we don't have to, you know, provide incentives and be partners with with these businesses, and that they could do this on their own unfortunately, you know, we're not in that position.  Again, we were, I think things were really on the upswing, I think, you know, the last year has has set our downtown back considerably. And I mean, you know, anyone who's driven down there, and I've talked to anyone who lives there, and works there has seen it, I mean, it's we're struggling. And this is a this is a company that's willing to make an investment, a substantial investment in a property downtown, and is looking for a partnership and some help from the city. And I think in the current environment, we need to be a willing partner. Now, I wish we didn't have to, you know, do some sort of incentive. And I will say, I think, you know, a few years back, we probably would have been looking at extending the real property tax abatement. But we're now in a position where we're recognizing that's not something that's either politically popular or probably good policy. So we're trying to get creative and use other ways to both be a willing partner provide a modest level of incentive to help encourage investment downtown. And that's what we came up with in this plan.

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  1:13:40
So since I'm now the chair of streets, I've been sitting on the parking commission, and what you're saying is reflected in the parking income that we've come in. So I know that I'm telling the truth. Okay. So I'm normally Am I allowed to know. So now I'm in a different position. And I tell people this all the time. I'm real, I can't support this. I'm now at a present now. Okay, because I do acknowledge that we have some problems, and that we want to get our downtown back started. I still don't believe we should do it at the expense of our neighborhoods. That's always been my thing is that we put too much money in the downtown at the expense of our neighborhoods, and we haven't been putting money where it was really intended to go, but I do acknowledge that there is a real problem. And I have one other question and I'm gonna just get off because I, I met a surprisingly present is, you talked about the full time employees are full time 50 full time employees still employed and working are what were their 50 employees and have they had to layoff during this pandemic?

Jack Coatar, 7th ward alderman  1:14:48
No, I believe there's still 50 full time equivalent employees, all of them and I you know, I suspect at some point during the pandemic, you know, certain staff are furloughed and things but I do know like many other you know, Hotels, these downtown hotel operators were taking full advantage of whatever federal dollars were available to try to keep their workforce employed as best they could.

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  1:15:10
So and I just would steal, because I'm finding all kinds of things that I'm helping people with, I've been helping people in the neighborhood to find ways to apply for money. So I would think that we would have some kind of committee or something over sldc. That would be our business system center. That would be helping people see if they qualify for federal money that's out there, including hotels. Okay, so that's just my suggestion. I don't know what that really well, I can't support it. But I can't I'm not gonna say no. So that's the best I could do. Because I usually wouldn't be a No, thank you.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:15:42
I have no further appreciate that. Thank you. alderwoman. Thank you all the woman, all the woman from 13.

Anne Schweitzer, 13th ward Alderwoman  1:15:52
Thank you so much, Mr. President, members of the board. I-- you know, I've been looking through rockridge capital's website while we've been talking and you know, I'm pretty impressed by the organization that they have, I'm looking at the different different funds, they have seven different funds that they're using to invest in hotels looks like they've put, you know, millions and millions and millions and you know, into these hotels, the fund size goes up to a billion dollars and their funds, the capitalization is at over 5 billion. So it looks to me like these people have some money. And I'm really in favor of investment in our neighborhoods and downtown. But not as much in favor of property tax abatements, especially when there's already one happening here. I am a no on this resolution because of the fact that I'm just not seeing financial need from this company, from what they're putting out about themselves. And, you know, I don't think that there isn't a solution here or some sort of compromise. But as the resolution stands, I am a No, thank you.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:17:04
Thank you all the ones. Any further discussion Any further discussion? women from the seventh you're recognized the close.

Jack Coatar, 7th ward alderman  1:17:15
Thank you, Mr. President, members of the board, and I appreciate my colleagues and their for thoughtful questions. And as I stated at the outset, you know, we've got a we've got some real challenges downtown As the alderwoman from the first alluded to this was this was a project that was negotiated in good faith between the city sldc the developer, and this is what was agreed upon and what was passed by this port authority sent over to us. I am a man of my word and I and I am moving forward hoping I can count on my colleagues support to approve this resolution and show that we are both willing partner and supportive of our downtown businesses that are that are trying to rebound after a very challenging year. So with that, I renewed my motion to final pass resolution 12

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:18:06
roll call is removed but ultimate from the seven second battle on the 10th and 22nd that we approve Resolution Number 12 that's going to request roll call Madam Clerk, please call the roll.

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  1:18:19
Alderwoman Tyus 

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  1:18:20
Present

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  1:18:25
Alderwoman Middlebrook, 

Lisa Middlebrook, 2nd ward Alderwoman  1:18:26
Aye 

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  1:18:29
Alderman Bosley Alderwoman Evans Alderman page. 

James Page, Alderman ward 5  1:18:44
Aye 

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  1:18:46
Alderwoman ingrassia, 

Christine Ingrassia, 6th ward Alderwoman  1:18:48
No 

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  1:18:51
Alderman Coatar

Jack Coatar, 7th ward alderman  1:18:54
Aye

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  1:18:58
Alderwoman rice. 

Annie Rice, Alderwoman ward 8  1:19:01
No. 

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  1:19:03
alderman Gunther alderman Vollmer. 

Joe Vollmer, 10th ward Alderman  1:19:12
aye 

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  1:19:15
alderwoman Martin. 

Sarah Wood-Martin, 11th ward Alderwoman  1:19:17
Aye. 

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  1:19:19
Alderman Stevens. 

Bill Stephens, 12th ward Alderman  1:19:22
No. 

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  1:19:25
Alderwoman Schweitzer

Anne Schweitzer, 13th ward Alderwoman  1:19:26
No

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  1:19:30
Alderwoman Howard. 

Carol Howard, 14th ward Alderwoman  1:19:31
Aye

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  1:19:34
Alderwoman green. 

Dr. Megan Green, 15th Ward Alderwoman  1:19:35
No

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  1:19:39
Alderman Oldenburg.

Tom Oldenburg, 16th ward Alderman  1:19:41
Aye

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  1:19:46
Alderwoman Pihl

Tina "Sweet T" Pihl, 17th ward Alderwoman  1:19:48
no

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  1:19:52
Alderman Todd 

Jesse Todd, Alderman ward 18  1:19:53
present 

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  1:19:57
Alderwoman Davis 

Marlene Davis, 19th ward Alderwoman  1:20:01
Aye 

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  1:20:04
Alderwoman Spencer? 

Cara Spencer, 20th ward Alderwoman  1:20:06
Aye

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  1:20:09
Alderman Mohamad. alderman Boyd 

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:20:14
Aye

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  1:20:17
Alderman Vaccaro 

Joe Vaccaro, 23rd ward Alderman  1:20:19
Aye 

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  1:20:21
Alderman Narayan

Bret Narayan, 24th ward Alderman  1:20:24
No.

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  1:20:29
Alderman Cohn.

Shane Cohn, 25th ward Alderman  1:20:30
No

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  1:20:33
Alderwoman Clark-Hubbard 

Shameem Clark Hubbard, 26th ward alderwoman  1:20:35
Aye

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  1:20:38
Alderwoman Boyd alderwoman Navarro. 

Heather Navarro, 28th ward Alderwoman  1:20:46
Aye. 

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:20:50
president Reed 

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  1:20:51
aye.  Alderman Bosley.

Brandon Bosley, 3rd ward Alderman  1:21:01
Aye

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  1:21:03
Thank you. Alderwoman Evans,  aye  Alderman Guenther alderman Mohamad. Alderwoman Boyd 16 aye votes eight no votes and two voted present.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:21:45
By vote. We sustain the motion from the Alderman from the 7th, and adopt Resolution Number 12.

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  1:21:54
Resolution 34 sponsored by all the women Middlebrook recommended the city of St. Louis Port Authority provide personal property tax abatement, and a sales tax exemption on construction materials. astera St. Louis,

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:22:08
a woman from the second you recognize on this second reading Resolution Number 34. Thank you, Mr. President, members of the board, I'm allowed to finally pass resolution 34. Second, and I missed that. Alderwoman 14, seconded by all one from the 14th. All one from the second please proceed.

Lisa Middlebrook, 2nd ward Alderwoman  1:22:31
Thank you, Mr. President. So resolution 34 is essentially the Port Authority Commissioner. commission recently approved a revenue bond transaction to offer Astera St. Louis Ltd sales and use tax exemption and personal property abatement in connection with development of their fertilizer industrial facility along the waterfront. This project will create approximately 40 jobs with an average salary around 66,000 a year. And I am in support of this. And that's pretty much it. So I'll be happy to answer any questions. and ask for your favorite consideration?

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:23:18
Right. Thank you. I moved and seconded that we adopt Resolution Number 34. Any discussion? It's been moved this move by our from the second second invite all one from the 14th that we are the one for the first

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  1:23:37
president members of the board if the order one from the second would yield

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:23:40
all one from secondary yield till all the ones in first?

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  1:23:44
Yes. Okay. And um, thank you all the woman asteria St. Louis is located. Where along the river front, is it downtown? Or is it because you're you traverse the whole North St. Louis. So where is it located? Where were they constructing this? Hello.  Let get the exact okay. I'm sorry. It doesn't have to be exactly. I mean, is

Lisa Middlebrook, 2nd ward Alderwoman  1:24:21
it downtown? information? I saw Yes. Downtown. Okay. And do

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  1:24:26
they already have facilities? Or is this their first facility there? I'm not for me with it.

Lisa Middlebrook, 2nd ward Alderwoman  1:24:31
I believe that they already have facilities. And when we talk to the owner of this,

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  1:24:38
okay, so this is is this a new building? Or is this just they're going to bring a new product or is their product that they're bringing? They have the building. Okay. And so the construction material is for what that's what I guess I'm trying to figure out

Lisa Middlebrook, 2nd ward Alderwoman  1:24:56
far there. Um, it's for their fertilizer, that they're going to Be shipping worldwide. And it's from my understand as fertilizer, that issues for food.

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  1:25:06
Okay. And so I guess I'm missing it. So I'm trying to understand. So their fertilizer is going to get their tax abatement and sales tax, I know that that has to be wrong. So is it that the way it's going to be transported? I'm

Lisa Middlebrook, 2nd ward Alderwoman  1:25:25
just trying to figure out it's for I'm sorry. It's for the development of it, they're going to be making it. So that's, that's what it's for.

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  1:25:34
So they're going to be developing a new thing that will give you fertilizer to grow food. Correct. Okay. And in the development, why don't we need the property tax abatement and the sales tax exemption? I guess, I'm trying to

Lisa Middlebrook, 2nd ward Alderwoman  1:25:53
understand that. I can find the answer to that question for you. But I don't have an answer for that right now.

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  1:26:04
Okay, so I know it's already went it went to committee. Yes. Okay. And there was, is there someplace I have to read about that. I guess I'm just finding it hard that we're given a property text and sale text to a product. Usually, I'm looking at that it's going to be on. I'm sorry, can you repeat yourself? Somebody just yelled in the background. I said, I'm finding it hard that we're given personal property tax abatement and sales tax exemption for our product. So that's what I'm trying to understand. Usually dislike, you know, what we doing a hotel and we're redoing the rooms, or we're building a new building, but if they already have the building, um, I just don't know what that goes along with. So that's what I'm trying to understand. Okay.

Marlene Davis, 19th ward Alderwoman  1:26:57
I'm sorry, I'm pulling up information right now.

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  1:27:12
They are they are rehabbing. They're building a swale. So it is made for that. Okay, so they're rehabbing? Do they already have any property taxes sales tax on the building? Let's see. Not that I know of. So they're not, so they don't have a property tax abatement or sale tax exemption, um, thus far, and how much is the property tax? How long is the property tax abatement? And how long is the sales tax exemption?

1:27:42
Okay, let me give you the direct information for that. It will be for 10 years of 25% personal property tax abatement and a sales tax exemption on construction and materials for the project.

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  1:28:04
And with this fertilizer be used in all different kinds of foods. So it's a specific Do you know, now, I don't know, he just stated to me that it will be used in foods and shipped throughout the country and around the world. And do you have any jobs associated with this particular venture?

Marlene Davis, 19th ward Alderwoman  1:28:20
Roughly? Roughly 60. Full time?

1:28:25
Yes.

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  1:28:27
The kind of jobs that you can actually make a living off of and not have to work two, three jobs. So absolutely. They're starting at $66,665? Oh, yes, that's a good amount. You can make your mortgage. Okay. Further questions. Thank you, Mr. President, members, and thank you all to one from the second. Thank you.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:28:48
Thank you. Any further discussion, any further discussion all one from the 14th.

Carol Howard, 14th ward Alderwoman  1:28:56
I just would like to say that this is also a very sustainable fertilizer that's coming on line. And I rise in support of this. I think that it'll be a good addition to the city of St. Louis, as far as manufacturing. Thank you.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:29:15
I thank you, all the one from the eighth.

Annie Rice, Alderwoman ward 8  1:29:20
He was the president that I'm the older woman from the 14th comments, were one of the questions I actually had was sort of more about the product and the sustainability. So if that's I don't know who their question would be more appropriate for if the if the sponsor has the information or if all the woman from the 14th also would have more information about what when the product

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:29:42
is formed from the 14th. What do you have you held? I shared a link there was a article in the May 20. Post dispatch about it all along from 14th with the other question,

1:29:57
oh yes, I'm sorry.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:29:59
All the ones from Please proceed.

Annie Rice, Alderwoman ward 8  1:30:02
Thank you, Mr. President. And thank you all around for the 14. Did you say Where did you share that link that we could learn more about the product? I shared it with the clerk? Okay. Is there would you be able to drop that in the chat? We can just pull that up real quick? Oh, I don't know about that. If I'm just very curious. I think it's a

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:30:21
I can do what I can do here. I'll try. I'll try to do that. in the chat. Okay. Wonderful. Yeah. All the woman from the second, would you like to yield on this on the same question to all the one for me?

Lisa Middlebrook, 2nd ward Alderwoman  1:30:37
I'm sorry, I was just muted. Okay. I'm from from my understanding this, yes, this, when we were in committee, the owner of this facility, they state that it was a very sustainable product. So I'm glad to hear that because I am very concerned with some things that are going on in our foods. And what we're consuming is, you know, and especially for children, so yeah,

Annie Rice, Alderwoman ward 8  1:31:05
certainly, yeah. And I completely agree, especially when we're dealing with the river front and our water sources. But the cleaner we can be development on there, I think is really important as well. So thank you, I think, you know, the combination of both the equipment that is producing product, and the building improvements make this make a lot of sense. So thank you all the woman for bringing this forward.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:31:29
Thank you, Parliament for the 12th.  Thank you, Mr. President, the board with the alderwoman from the 12th yield to three brief questions on all the ones from second. Did you are you are all the men from the 12th. You want it? Did you ask the dog one from the second yield for questioning? I couldn't. I didn't mean that. But I say the older one from the 12 that I shared with the older woman from the second. All right. Oh, seconds, he agrees to yield, please proceed all the way from 12.

Bill Stephens, 12th ward Alderman  1:32:09
Thank you President aboard. And thank you all everyone from the second I'm trying to cut back on my caffeine intake. And I believe it shows three brief questions of this project as outlined by astera being upon the riverfront, is there any potential environmental impact, or would this improve in sort of their engagement with the environment? Or can you speak to that? 

Lisa Middlebrook, 2nd ward Alderwoman  1:32:30
I'm sorry, I cannot at this moment. 

Bill Stephens, 12th ward Alderman  1:32:33
Oh, that's okay. I appreciate. I appreciate that. Oh, that's the article there. With the you said earlier that they have currently 60 positions. This seeks to create an additional 40 positions. So would that be you know, essentially they're seeking to create 100 positions with an average salary of about $67,000? Correct? Or now 

Lisa Middlebrook, 2nd ward Alderwoman  1:32:56
this will be a total of 60 positions. 

Bill Stephens, 12th ward Alderman  1:32:59
Okay, so they currently have 20, but they seek to introduce 40 new positions, correct. Okay, thank you. I just I appreciate clarification. And then our Do you know, or can you speak louder? Not any unions represented by at this facility or so and so forth, would be represented by this time. 

Lisa Middlebrook, 2nd ward Alderwoman  1:33:19
I do not know if they have any unions. 

Bill Stephens, 12th ward Alderman  1:33:22
That's okay. That's okay. I appreciate. I appreciate your responses. And I yield back. Thank you.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:33:28
Thank you. All the men from the fifth. You recognize. Oh, thank you, Mr. President, members of the board. Would they all the woman from the second yield for a question? All? Yes. Second. All the men from the fifth please proceed? Yes. All women from the second does your documentation provide the exact street address of the requester?

Lisa Middlebrook, 2nd ward Alderwoman  1:34:02
Let me look it up. Give me one second. See if I have Sorry, I'm working on us phone instead of my computer. It is. I do not have that exact legit address, but I can get it to you.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:34:29
Oh, thank you. Thank you, Mr. President. I yield back. All their men for the 22nd. You recognize.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:34:41
Thank you, Mr. President, members of board if I remember correctly, doing HUDs believe the owner said this is a proprietary product is very environmentally friendly and it kind of stays on the surface it does not permeate the soil. Or as I guess there are other fertilizers out there that it can sometimes contain Ain't the water source. But I think he was, if I remember correctly, I will not from the second if I jogged your memory agree with me, but I'm reasonably sure he had made that comment that this is very environmentally friendly, and it kind of stays, you know, on the surface and it doesn't cause harm to the environment.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:35:22
Thank you. All right. Any further, any further discussion in further discussion? All longfin. Second you recognize the close. Thank you, Mr. President. I renew my motion. The move by longfin second seconded by the old one from 14th that we that resolution number 34. All in favor signify by saying aye.

Marlene Davis, 19th ward Alderwoman  1:35:47
Aye.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:35:49
Aye. hos motion carries.

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  1:35:53
Resolution 36 months of our president read and out. Don't want to Middlebrook approval of the city of St. Louis, senior citizens Service Fund budget.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:36:03
All one from the second you recognize on second reading resolution 36. Thank you, Mr. President, members of the board. I'm sorry to recognize 36 Thank you, I refreshed anonymous consent resolution 36. Which like to move for adoption of resolution 36. Yes, I'm sorry. Yes, I would like to move for adoption of resolution 36. I moved back again, from the 22nd and and the other one for me. And the discussion. It's been moved and seconded. All in favor signify by saying aye. Aye. Aye. Motion carries.

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  1:36:58
Resolution nine sponsored by alderman Boyd, an alderman McMorrow plot,

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:37:04
I'm sorry, crime prevention program funds. Almost from the 22nd. Recognize on for the report on resolution. I'm enough.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:37:14
Yes. Mr. President was a board like report. Resolution. Number nine came out of committee, as amended. There was a lot of arm twisting, a lot of fists thrown. Challenging debate alderwoman from the 26t ward did a phenomenal job advocating for an organization. And there was a lot of work put into making these recommendations. I want to thank the subcommittee for for all the hard work that was put into this and I'm happy to report out the organizations and the award amounts who are the recipients of the current allocation. We have the Wayman center awarded $25,000 Big Brothers and Big Sisters of Eastern Missouri $75,000 St. Louis youth jobs $90,000 Boys and Girls Club of greater St. Louis $90,000 jeans slaves Boys and Girls Club $90,000 prisoner Performing Arts $25,000 mission St. Louis $50,000 the 22nd Judicial Court, Family Court juvenile division 15,000 Thomas Dunne Learning Center 40,000 hung around Bay youth training program 45,000 in St. Louis story stitchers 70,000 likewise, formerly Kingdom house 85,000 pianos for people 40,000 throwing and growing foundation 95,000 links St. Louis incorporated $32,299 young voices with action $40,500 Urban 21 40,000 and good journey Development Foundation $51,158. Members of the Board Mr. President, that is the report out of the public safety committee unanimous approval of the aforementioned organizations.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:39:11
Hello, second. said thank you for that report. alderman. Madam,

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  1:39:21
extend a second reading resolutions committee reports and adoptions

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:39:26
miscellaneous unfinished business we have no announcements.

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  1:39:33
class we have a mean at 9am via webinar, public safety we have a mean at 1pm via via webinar Wednesday, June 16 ways and we have a meet at 9am. Thursday at 10am via webinar and Friday, June 18. The Office will be closed in honor of Juneteenth holiday.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:39:55
Thank you all the one from the first

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  1:39:58
president members of the board there Be a street meeting on Tuesday at 11. A live in AM.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:40:05
Please make note of, not it. Any further discussion from 26.

Shameem Clark Hubbard, 26th ward alderwoman  1:40:14
Thank you, Mr. President and members of the board, I would just like to invite everyone to an event, especially your children in the community couldn't exist this Saturday, tomorrow, at Sherman Park behind our beloved well, Community Center. This is a proactive event. And when I say proactive, you know why this is put on by the fifth district, St. Louis Metropolitan Police Department, under the leadership of Catherine Mueller, and also Deanna Jenkins, this is a spring Fest, everything is free for children. This is an event where we talk about we want to reimagine public safety and all these types of things that we are going to use to build trust and communication between us and the police department. And I am excited to support them on this event. And I'm excited that is in the 26th. Lord this year. Again, there'll be free food, free games, free fun, they're going to be landing actually landing a helicopter on insurance. And we'll be able to go in and gaze and get on the helicopter, which if you didn't know, I've learned that also in case you have an interest in STEM. So please tell your communities I will be on Fourth of July or tell your communities and good networks to bring their children now to Sherman Park tomorrow from 1130 to 2pm. And help us to reach these wedges between us and department. Thank you.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:41:37
Thank you all the one from 15th.

Dr. Megan Green, 15th Ward Alderwoman  1:41:41
Thank you, Mr. President, members of the board. The education and youth matters committee will be meeting on June 22, at 11am to hear an update from St. Louis public schools regarding the school closures, their framework and visioning plan, and also the calls to action for St. Louis city government that came out of the school closure plan. So please put that on your calendars.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:42:07
Thanks. Thank you all the ones for the second.

1:42:13
Thank you, Mr. President, members of the board, I would just like to remind people, if you can check on your seniors to please do so I have gone to several homes of seniors and they still have their heat on. And that's a little dangerous with you know, we're finally experiencing summer. So just please check on your seniors. It is dangerous to have the heat on and then it's supposed to be like 95 degrees today. I've just encouraged people to put on some sweats if you're cold, but turn the heat off. So thank you.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:42:46
Thank you so much for that public service announcement. Everybody. Please make note that you could say somebody live with them. I'll run from 19th.

Marlene Davis, 19th ward Alderwoman  1:42:58
Thank you, Mr. President and members of the board. I just wanted to congratulate Monica Butler, she's having the opening of a minority owned film, stage, TV's operation and also the ability to provide music medium as well. She's a very talented young woman. She has been here in the city of St. Louis, and done a lot with artists all over. But she she was determined, as he has made it. So it's on YouTube. And on Facebook. She's opening her facility in a downtown area. And I'm just excited for her. Because for us to have a minority owned facility that can make movies and also produce TVs. For folks, it is just incredible. And I'm I just have to at some point, I need to give a resolution because I've watched her go through the years of building and learning. And now she has achieved. So good luck to Monica. And my last thing is I wanted to give recognition to the passing of one of our residents of the city of St. Louis, former city employee as a deputy sheriff. very active in the 19th ward. She was what they call a right hand of Senate Budget banks during that time that he was in office. So Francis Shelby has transcended and she lived in the 19th War for at least 40 something years that I know about. And she's very active. She's going to be missed. She kept all our senior citizens informed on what the political climate was. And if you don't mind, could we just take a moment of silence for Francis Shelby? Harris, everyone and please join us in a moment of silence for the passing of Francis show,

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:45:20
Shelby. Thank you all of them for the 19th.

Marlene Davis, 19th ward Alderwoman  1:45:29
Thank you.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:45:32
All for now. Thank you, Mr. President.

1:45:36
this coming Saturday, tomorrow, the Urban League is having a clean sweep is having a cleanup in the 18th. Ward. It starts at nine o'clock. Tomorrow, we will be meeting behind the Sears building on and that's on Dr. Martin Luther King, between page. I hope everyone can can. I'm also encouraging all aging world residents who able physically able to come out and check your back in front and also check on your neighbors then it can help them if they need help cleaning up because we need to learn to love our neighbors as we do our sales. Thank you, Mr. President.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:46:18
Thank you all the one from at all the one from 13.

1:46:23
Thank you, Mr. President and members of the board. I also have a cleanup to announce probably not a huge surprise for people. The grand and Bates litter eliminators are doing a cleanup tomorrow morning at 8am at Grand and Bates are going to be going in all four directions. So please come join us. The other thing to announce tomorrow is Tuesday, Representative Steve butts and I are hosting a town hall for the 13th Ward at 7pm at epiphany Lutheran Church, and I hope people are able to make it. Thanks. All right. Thank

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:46:53
you. Any for second. Any further announcements, any further announcements? All the men from the 10th you recognize on the motion to excuse. Thank you, Mr. President, members of the board. I move that we excuse you're in the 21st and the 27th from necessary absence. Move on all in from the 10th entertain a second on that motion. I'll second add on from 23rd and the discussion. All in favor signify by saying aye. Aye. Oh, no. Oh, no. Motion carries, or nobody ever votes no on that. on that. All right from the 10th. You recognize on the motion to adjourn.

1:47:48
Thank you, Mr. President, members of the board and I move that we adjourn the meeting to next Thursday June 17. At 10am

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:47:56
from 10th Sanibel from 25th on thanks signify by saying aye. Aye pose. We stand yarn
