7/7/21, HUDZ Meeting,
Discussed: Foundry TIF, Board Bill 2
FULL VIDEO: [HERE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2govjfpBQck)

Clip: Sweet T talking about Foundry TIF
[HERE](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1413467973344399365?s=20)

Sweet T 7:08: And I support this TIF, because of these changes and these decreases. And because SLDC has looked at this particular development project, and it has passed the "but for" tests. And what I see in this coming up and trying to get this TIF approved with the sales use tax exemption is that we're going to be winning as a city. We're going to be getting another win, that wasn't there before. And that again, is equitable development contribution that has not been seen in the city, where it's gonna be $1.8 million. And that money, and those funds are going to be put into the Affordable Housing Trust Fund for housing repair. And it's not just going to go to one area, half of the money is going to go to the 17th ward, and half of the money is going to be going to north of Delmar. In addition to that, we've added that if the money is not spent in five years in terms of Home Repair, in Ward 17. It will be made available to neighborhoods north of Delmar.

Clip: Cohn asking about TIFs / Nahuel responds
[HERE](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1413468727962603524?s=20)

Shane Cohn 33:41 I want to ask either Nahuel or someone from SLDC. Or even, you know, alderwoman Pihl... Why the 1.8 million? Why don't we just reduce the amount of the TIF versus sending 1.8 million to the Affordable Housing Trust Fund? So instead of sending it to, you know, a token agency of the city? Why don't we just reduce the amount of the TIF and allow those funds to go directly to the schools to the library, to the community college, etc.

Nahuel Fefer: I can speak to this if you'd like alderwoman, if you want to add anything. But essentially, where the figure comes from is from the fact that the state recently passed a statute that will allow the city to moving forward in 2020 to divert 10% of TIF revenues from the TIF area to other infrastructure, including housing. And so that was the kind of principle that has actually been signed on to by our state's legislative body. It was sponsored by Carla Mae and we really believe in that as a excellent and useful tool for equitable development, which we will be using moving forward in 2022. This wasn't a vehicle that was available to us. But we liked the principle. And so we brought it to bear in this negotiation. And that's how we arrived at essentially making the request for the equitable development contribution.

Clip: Nahuel Fefer defending millions being donated instead of TIF
[HERE](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1413469986090229763?s=20)

Nahuel Fefer 42:13: As for the broader point about whether we're moving money from schools to housing, I think it's a really fair point. And the truth is, we have a housing crisis, we have an education crisis, they're both absolutely critical. In order for people to have a good quality of life, here in the city of St. Louis, the only difference that this does is it moves that money up to the present, it lets us invest it now, instead of giving us a long tail of revenue down 23 years, and in my books, I really think the city is at a turning point right now, and investments we make today will yield dividends down the line. And so that's why I support it from a policy perspective. But I also completely respect your position on income.

Clip: Narayan in support of Foundry TIF
[HERE](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1413470740725190662?s=20)

Bret Narayan 49:27 I do appreciate the work that the older woman from the 17th and the administration has put in on this. And I do share those some of the concerns that my colleague from the 25th brought up I know in 2019, when this was or maybe it was 20. in that session when it was first in front of us, he was one of only four people who did not vote in favor of this. So I also respect the fact that he's sticking to his guns on this now. But I do share the concern that he brings up about essentially over incentivization in the 17th Ward, and this is not the current alderwoman from the 17th's Issue. Just in the past, we have incentivized the 17th ward, virtually every chance we got. And so, I am reluctantly in support of this because it does reduce the, the current incentive there. But I think, moving forward especially, and wards like the 17th, we need to be very cautious, and I'll include the 24th there, I'm not just picking on the 17th word, I'm also very cautious about any incentives that I bring forward in the 24th we need to be very cautious, because we are taking money out of the hands of of our schools and libraries and putting it in the hands of developers. And it gets tougher and tougher to justify that as we continue to develop in specific areas of the city, while other areas do not see those investment dollars. So I I am reluctantly in support of this with that. 

Clip: John Collins Muhammad questioning Sweet T about TIFs.
[HERE](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1413473005624123393?s=20)

John Collins-Muhammad 51:48 Just one question for the Alderwoman, if she don't mind will she accept my question? My question is, do you think that is odd that in your two months of being a woman, you have voted against two tax abatement or TIF funding packages in North St. Louis, you have voted against them. But your first piece of legislation is a TIF in the 17? Four predominant right neighborhood? Don't you think that's a little, and I'm going to support this? Because I know that I know that tax subsidies can support and redevelop neighborhoods, and it can have a everlasting impact on our neighborhoods that's surrounding yours, mainly the 19th in the 18th. Ward, but don't you think it's a little odd that your first legislation in your first legislative priority is a TIF package in your community that's already economically developed? That has benefited from millions and 10s of millions of dollars from TIF funding? Don't you find that just a little bit perplexing?

Sweet T 52:57 Alderman Mohammed, thank you for that question. And I think one thing I'd like to know, I know that in terms of the hotel, I did vote against that. And I did, in terms of that, due to what I felt the Hilton had had enough money to be able to renovate that particular building, and that this was the second tip that was coming up for that particular building. And that was the reason in terms of that. And then I don't remember voting against a second tip for tax incentives. So I can address that. I just don't remember that. I did. vote against this. The second tip for tax incentives.

Clip: Lewis Reed going after Dr. Green for TIFs
[HERE](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1413474263722381316?s=20)

Lewis Reed, 1:15:41 And right now, the way we're operating in the city, we have a group of Aldermen led by Alderwoman green and, and some others that are that are saying, pretty much all these incentive packages are bad, and they hold the city back and this hurt in our schools, and so on, so forth. But when you look at, you know, the fact that the city has to maintain a competitive advantage, the city has to be able to get some projects moving close the gap where the banks and others won't fill in. And developers are just like any other business, they are in business to make profit. They're not in it to be martyrs, right. So any business, whether you go to the store to buy a candy bar, buy, you know, gallon of gas, or whatever, somebody is profiting from that. The same thing here. It would be beyond naive and disingenuous to think that this developer, like any other developer isn't profiting, this developer is indeed profiting, just like the developers on the other development incentives that that same group chooses to vote against and chooses to speak out against and chooses to do their best to try to kill those. 


Clip: Reed speaking for TIFs:
[HERE](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1413473760502599685?s=20)

Lewis Reed, 1:20:14 I guess what I, what I want to make sure to impart is that, you know, when other projects come up, take a moment and look at the project and give some understanding, and some, some credence to the other elected officials that have brought those projects. Because they, you know, oftentimes have have not oftentimes they've done their homework, their projects have passed the but for test also, all the TIFs that we brought him past about four tests, according to the same people that told you that this one pass the but for tests. The difference is that that cadre of individuals that pick things based on not the project, but based on the person that's carrying the project, will wrap their arms around this one and carry it tall and say that, because it passes the but for test, this is a great project. But when I'm gonna submit to you is some of those very same projects. In other parts of the city, particularly North St. Louis, that same group has spoken out against them, that same group has fought against that same group has done their best to try to stop those projects. And that is, that's very, that's unhealthy.

Clip: Tom Shepard on Wards opting out

Tom Shepard 2:16:22 Section 17 is new language that does not relate to the exhibit directly. It this this is language that was requested by some members of the Board of Aldermen regarding the intentional encampments and for no federal funding to be used within their wards towards creating an intentional encampment. So I'll give you the wards I won't give you the I won't give you, just a second.

Jeffrey Boyd: Hmm, yeah, we don't need the boundries ward numbers, good enough. 

Tom Shepard: Right, right. I'll give you the wards Ward Two. Word three. Ward four. Ward Five. Ward fourteen. Ward 16. Ward 19. Ward 21. Ward 22. And Ward 27. All asked to have their wards exempt from any of that kind of spending. 

Clip: Jack Coatar with $5M police overtime
[HERE](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1413167849087119362?s=20)

Jack Coatar 2:37:25: I also, and despite what some of my colleagues are saying I fully support, and was one that suggested moving the $5 million for towards police overtime. I mean, that's roughly the amount that was cut this year's budget, you know, looking at previous budget years past, you spent around $16 million per year on overtime. And this year, we've only budgeted 11, which, you know, we talk about budgets being living documents, and that's fine, I think we should be honest about what we're budgeting. And, frankly, with the shortage of police officers and the rise in violent crime that we're seeing, I think it's important to make sure that our police department has adequate resources to police the streets. I, the President himself, not of the board, but of the country echoed this just recently, about two weeks ago, where he said, use these rescue plan dollars for police overtime and police pay. And in fact, the Treasury Department put out additional guidance on that very line item, which which authorizes using these rescue plan funds for overtime.

Clip: Sarah Wood Martin anti-unhoused

Sarah Wood Martin 2:43:03: We can't sit here and pretend like we couldn't take action on some on the money that was coming or take public input. Until we got the mayor's recommendations. It's been repeated over and over again, that we're our own body. And that did not preclude us from having any hearings and not changing hearing dates at the last minute either. We could have had set hearings with public input. We could have collected data ourselves. I don't I kind of repeat what alderman Cohen said I like a lot of what is in this bill, I support most of it. I think a lot of it is well thought out. But when we have 50% of the bill of where we're not putting homeless encampments, and then some random development ideas with no data. I know that a lot of folks probably having visited South Broadway in the 11th ward, I didn't particularly feel like asking for ward specific line items. But this is just kind of just throwing stuff at the wall at the last minute in a lot of ways.  50% of the bill being where we're not putting homeless encampments really does nothing to help us. The reality is and no one wants to say this is that no one wants homeless encampments in their ward. No one wants them or most people don't I shouldn't speak for the entire board. But their constituents don't want them. Whether it's a park or whether it's, you know, by their house, or under the interstate. 

Today, I saw that square downtown once a homeless encampment moved. There was a lot of criticism for folks who downtown folks who wanted a residence and who wanted that homeless encampment moved downtown. And now it's suddenly okay to move the encampment and everyone's all over the place on the unhoused issue. We have a crisis, the city is left dealing with this crisis because many of the advocates that come down and talk to us or make recommendations, or go after us on social media. A lot of advocates don't live in this city. And I don't know if they're really going to their local municipality to talk about these issues and see how they're spending their money that they're getting. I understand the city is getting a lot more than a lot of our area municipalities in St. Louis County. But we are left with that burden. And instead of having something as well thought out, we're just saying, oh, not my ward. And I just don't really think that's a responsible approach with the amount of money we're getting.

Clip: Narayan asks Boyd about wards opting out
[HERE](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1413478290308968448?s=20)

Bret Narayan 2:52:01 So there's two sections 17. So the first section 17, which is the opt out clause, for the intentional encampments. So, yeah, this is more of a question than a than a statement. I guess I was I was looking at the potential of doing this back when we had the the air quality control debate. I was looking at the potential of allowing certain areas to opt out. And I was, I was told at the time that legislation that did that would be unconstitutional. Is there something different here? That makes it constitutional? I mean, I just don't know. I'm asking, 

Jeffrey Boyd: Well, you know, this is kind of like liquor moratorium, I guess we'd have to say liquor moratorium to unconstitutional. We this is I look at this as a zoning, you know, issue, kind of sorta, although it didn't, you know, it's not specific to zoning. But I look at it from that point. And I'm not a lawyer. I always tell people, you know, I practice it. But you know, it's free services. But I've never tried in court, but I win more cases than I lose on the street. I'm not sure. That's a good question. 

Clip: Coatar opts out unhoused
[HERE](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1413476528869023745?s=20)

Jack Coatar 2:58:11: It will insert the boundary of the seventh ward in the boundaries of the 10th ward. You know, this basically adding to the neighborhoods, they're the boards that are I guess, unwilling to host homeless encampments sponsored by the city. In the Seventh Ward, I can tell you we have many encampments as it is both in downtown parks and under many of the interstates overpasses in the seventh ward. And these are a constant source of frustration and issues for law enforcement and for constituents and businesses in the seventh ward. It's something that I'm not going to get behind. And I don't think my constituents will, and the alder from the 10 felt the same way. So this amendment just seeks to add those two boundaries into the sort of exclusion areas.

Clip: Cohn in support of unhoused


Shane Cohn 3:02:32: I do think that with the intentional housing, it does provide some wraparound services, they are trying to be more thoughtful and how that's done. I think all of us should have questions around just that, you know, what are those wraparound services? How are they going to be provided and also how it's going to be sustainable moving forward, because it's nice to have the, you know, one time drop in the bucket cash to set these things up, but how are we going to continue to sustain them in the future. But I think it's a little disingenuous on the part of our board to just unilaterally say, well, we don't want these in our neighborhoods. You know, I think that we should still take a thoughtful approach to how we're handling our unhoused brothers and sisters, you know, and how we might be able to give them a leg up. You know, I, again, I share many of the frustrations of my colleagues, but I do think that it's a little disingenuous to just completely opt out. 

Clip: Narayan against ward opt out
[HERE](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1413479045212344321?s=20)

Bret Narayan 3:12:06 I think that breaking this down Ward by Ward, is a mistake. We've seen that in the various various things that we've done throughout the city that need to be a comprehensive program. When we break down Ward by Ward it, it falls apart on us we we end up pushing the problem into each other's wards as all and there's not a centralized solution for easier things like traffic calming. When, when I'm looking at these intentional encampments, I'm thinking about things like the the veterans community project that we all just looked at, and many of us supported, if we can look at projects like that, and locate them in places that have access to, to jobs, access to places to, to buy food, access to, to hospitals, you know, things of that nature, and public transit, you know, all of that we can actually help people get back up on their feet, there are people of course, who are not ready or do not want to be housed at the moment. And you know, some of them, it's going to be much harder to to get to get to the bottom of of how to solve that problem. But I think that just simply opting out wholesale is it's gonna make it harder to find a solution that works here.

Clip: Boyd against Direct Cash Relief
[Here](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1413157080765276164?s=20)

Jeffrey Boyd, 4:03:49 So the federal government gave out stimulus checks. And some people, I think I'm above 80%, AMI, my household income, but I still got a stimulus check. My wife got a stimulus check. Daughters got stimulus checks. And there are people who are just a little bit above those federal guidelines. And so, you know, my daughter can't qualify for a Pell Grant. So we made a few $1,000 more. There's a lot of people in that situation. It's almost like if you're middle class or near middle class, you get punished because you don't really qualify for a lot of the government giveaways. 

And so although I think this is a very noble cause, I don't see how it can be equitable because there are people that are low income that need the money, and there are people that are not low income and even people that work for Edward Jones lost their job. I'm just making that up. I don't know what real but there are people who lost their jobs making really good money, six figures and they need a safety net as well.

Clip: Bret Narayan in support of Direct Cash Relief
[HERE](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1413161465901617162?s=20)

Bret Narayan 4:02:06 I'm gonna go out on a limb here, I guess and say that I'm, I'm supportive of this. I don't think that we can wait. There's a lot of us here in the city that I don't think we can wait for the folks in DC to quick bickering with each other to try and bring some some direct help. I know that over in Jefferson City, they're cutting unemployment benefits that they don't necessarily have to. And with the idea that, you know, people need to get back to work. There's still people who cannot work. There's people who haven't been able to work through this. There's people who lost their entire industries through this. There's people who can't can't wait another week, they can't wait another month, they can't wait six months for us to get it together here. And if we have the ability to provide direct assistance to them in any amount, I think we should I understand that I'm likely to be outvoted on that. But that's my piece. Thank you.

Clip: Reed against Direct Cash Relief
[HERE](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1413152704713699330?s=20)

Lewis Reed, 4:06:26 I'm against this proposal, for obvious reasons. When you calculate how many people this cover, I This would include about 3% of the population in the city of St. Louis, again, 3% of the population in the city of St. Louis. So these very few people were talking about in terms of giving them a very, very small check anything between 205 $100, that's not going to be transformational, the way we need it to be transformational. I think wonder all the men talked already about the amount of assistance we have and rental assistance, mortgage assistance, utility assistance, right? food pantries work on everything, right, we have all of those other things going the federal government this last year, has given some families up to $5,000 or more, right? And still, and not not one family, not 3% of the population 100% of the population of the city of St. Louis minus those that were beyond the threshold, were able to were able to get a check. And when you think about how quickly that goes, and these these the how minute of  an impact $500 would be for 3% of the population. This is a poor expenditure of money. So I i'm not i'm not supporting that to say as quickly as I can.


