7/16/21, Full BOA
Issues discussed: School Moratorium, Board Bill 2 pulled
Full video here: [HERE](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dwuOyhkr1Bs)

Clip: Tom Oldenburg NextDoor Bill Back to Perfection
[HERE](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1416744563222384642?s=20)

Tom Oldenburg 17:50: In the spirit of compromise. Colleagues, I'm hoping for your agreement to reconsider My plan is to put this board bill back on the perfection calendar, then put it on the informal calendar. I've been in pretty intense conversations with the public safety directors office over the last 24 hours. And I think it's important to have their buy in I think we will have their buy in on this ordinance. With again, some compromised measures in place from from both sides. It's important if this is going to be implemented that we do have their their full buy in. And I would like it to be certainly recognized that we have 17 votes for this when we perfected it. And the sponsor of this poll is certainly under no obligation to reconsider when you have the votes. But I hope that the this spirit of compromise and the sincerity of it will also echo to some of my colleagues who bring forth hollow compromise. So with that, Mr. President, I look forward to the vote.

Clip: Jesse Todd reading resolution
[HERE](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1416747079506927620?s=20)

Jesse Todd 45:18: Now, therefore, be it resolved that the Board of alders of the city of St. Louis supports a moratorium on new school owner than the city of St. Louis, until a comprehensive plan for education is developed. Be a further resolved that the Board of elders commit to engaging with education system leaders, education practitioners, community stakeholders, city and state level policymakers. And scholars in the development of such a plan to design a system of excellent schools, which provide consistent education opportunities across all schools, neighborhoods, and wards. A Board of all, I'm asking you to consider all of them asking for your considerable consideration for Resolution Number 45 a moratorium new school openings in the city of St. Louis, a comprehensive with a comprehensive until a comprehensive plan is developed. This will create efficiency efficient, and it will Preserve District resources. And it would serve all students, it will it will also reduce school closings. And this will improve the impact that our community will have an American and this will also help provide quality education for all students, regardless of enrollment in in district or charter school. 

Clip: Joe Vaccaro against School Moratorium
[HERE](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1416752113321979904?s=20)

Joe Vaccaro 51:04: I'm actually the opposite on it. I think that when we start trying to start a new schools charters, otherwise, ya know, private schools are still gonna be opening, I think. I realized this is a resolution doesn't really have any real effect. But I just don't see this as an unnecessary move. I think it I think it hinders us from getting schools and neighborhoods, such as charter or even public schools trying to reassess where they're at and how they open to better serve their communities. So that's all I have to say. Thank you. 

Clip: Schweitzer in support of school moratorium
[HERE](https://twitter.com/StlPoliticClips/status/1416754629077917699?s=20)

Anne Schweitzer 52:00: Mr. President, members of the board, during the education and youth matters committee, a few. Maybe months ago, maybe last month, time is so strange. We had our chairwoman Green had Dr. Adams from the St. Louis public schools present to us. And one of the things he said during the presentation was that because of the pandemic, interestingly enough, the district and charter schools have been communicating better than ever. And this sort of, kind of butting heads of both districts and charter schools, which are both public schools, has caused a lot of contention and has been part of an unhealthy thing for our school district. And for our students more Most importantly, and what Dr. Adams said, is that they're working with the charter schools, the district and the charter schools together to put together a comprehensive plan. So I, and in that plan there, they're going to be talking about how many schools the city actually needs, and having some of these discussions that, you know, have been asked for by the people of St. Louis for so long. And this plan when it comes out, you know, will be the end of this resolution. This resolution is just saying we support this conversation that they're having, and that we're going to, as Dr. Adams has asked for, put this moratorium in place until that time happens. So it's not a forever thing. I believe Dr. Adams said their goal was to do it within a year. And I do think this show of solidarity that we support their planning process, and that we want this for the students of St. Louis, is a great show of solidarity from the Board of Aldermen
