Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  0:00  
So my bad catch up with just say I'll find the link yeah you can begin Ottoman boy Okay thank you. The housing urban development zoning committee will be called to order for July July 7, nine o'clock please call the roll

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  0:32  
ATTENDANCE BEING TAKEN out the woman Davis, President McComb automate coder. Here are the woman Boyd Franzen automate Mahamat hear out a woman mourn, present. Ottoman Ryan. Present. The woman Evans present. Chairman Boyd, President, President read your nonpregnant you have

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:07  
Okay, thank you Madam clerk. next order of business approval the minutes I'll entertain a motion for adoption of the minutes dated June 30 2021.

So we approve them. Check them properly move the second Madam Clerk, please call the roll

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  1:27  
VOTE BEING TAKEN out a woman Davis. McComb mckown. automate coder. Hi. alderwoman. Boyd. I automate Mahamat. Hi. out a woman morn. Hi, Amanda Ryan. Hi, right. Out of woman Evans. I Chairman Boyd. President re not

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  2:02  
approved the minutes from June 30 2021. I'm sorry, but I have a lot of one on if it gets too noisy. Can you please let me know. And I just moved to another part of the room. So up for discussion, today's Board Bill  number 2, 71, 72, and 73. Then we're going to actually go ahead and take Board Bill 71. First, then 72 and 73. So was now before us is board Bill 71. sponsored by Alderwoman Pihl. Alderwoman Pihl? Unmute.

Tina "Sweet T" Pihl, 17th ward Alderwoman  2:41  
Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and members of the committee. So today, we're going to be discussing, as the chairman said, or bill number 7172 and 73. They are a package deal for the legislation for the Sydney foundries development project. Before I give a little bit of description about these three bills, and some details, I'm just going to give a little bit of background information regarding the city Foundry and this. So there was a TIF that was approved in 2017 for the redevelopment project area RPA. One. And then in 2019. There was another TIF that was approved RPA, too, because the developer had made some amendments. And that tip was approved in June of 2019. And the developer actually has started building the Alamo Drafthouse. And then as that has been constructed, as we know, in 2020, COVID happened. And the developer had proposed in 2019, an RPA too that he was going to develop two office buildings, but because of COVID, a lot of things have changed. And we are working differently. We're working more online. And so it seems that we're not going to have needs as much office space. So developer now has come back to the HUDs committee to amend RPA two that was approved in June, when you're looking at is to build an office building only one and apartment building. Now we're going to go into a little bit about bills. So we're going board bill 71  is re approving the 2019 city boundary TIF with a tax increment financing because of the changes in redevelopment plan as I mentioned, boardwalk bill number 72 is amending and restating the redevelopment and financing agreement in board bill number 73, we're looking to issue a sales and tax use exemption. And in addition to that board bill number 73, we're going to be adding an equitable development contribution of $1.8 million, that will be going into affordable home repair that the developer will be providing with regards to RPA. So this is not a TIF, this is not a new tip. It's, as I said, it was approved in 2019. And I'm going to give it just a little bit more detail regarding the other things that have changed in that you should know, regarding this TIF. so there's going to be 37,000 square feet of retail, there's going to be 59,000 square feet of office. And then as I said, there's going to be an apartment complex, that's going to be 280. And in addition to that, there's going to be parking spaces and a parking garage of 492 Spaces. There's going to be also a slight increase in the tip from 17.2 to $18 million. And it's increases because as we know, material prices have gone up in this developer. Also, because of the changes in this development project, the project was slated to be about $90 million. And it's going to increase to $150 million with these changes. So development is going to be increasing, the TIF is going to go up a little bit. But actually that's only numerically, the tipTIFis actually going to be decreased.

It was at 17.2%, the TIF, and that was going to be decreasing to about 11.2%. So about a 6% decrease is going to be in this tip. 

And I support this TIF, because of these changes and these decreases. And because SLDC has looked at this particular development project, and it has passed the "but for" tests. 

And what I see in this coming up and trying to get this TIF approved with the sales use tax exemption is that we're going to be winning as a city. We're going to be getting another win, that wasn't there before. And that again, is equitable development contribution that has not been seen in the city, where it's gonna be $1.8 million. And that money, and those funds are going to be put into the Affordable Housing Trust Fund for housing repair. And it's not just going to go to one area, half of the money is going to go to the 17th ward, and half of the money is going to be going to north of Delmar. In addition to that, we've added that if the money is not spent in five years in terms of Home Repair, in Ward 17. It will be made available to neighborhoods north of Delmar.

 I would like to now pass the information to the developers, Steve Smith to give more details about this redevelopment plan in the amendments.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  8:37  
Is there any buddy from sldc? They want to speak first? Or were they not scheduled to speak?

Tina "Sweet T" Pihl, 17th ward Alderwoman  8:47  
They are scheduled to speak in developer Steve Smith was going to provide you a detailed presentation regarding the city Foundry and the sldc. We'll be speaking afterwards. Okay. Mr. Smith, you're up.

PUBLIC SPEAKER  9:05  
Thank you. And thank you all and thank you alderman field for that introduction. Is it possible that I can get this screen to be able to share a presentation?

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  9:19  
Well, you can only share from you your computer we don't know. You're welcome to share if you know how to share. Okay. Can you see that? Yes.

PUBLIC SPEAKER  9:38  
Okay. So again, thank you all for your time today. So I wanted to start by just giving a little bit of context to the history of city Foundry and then we'll go into the specific presentation. So first of all, I'm born and raised St. lewisohn. I've worked in the city my entire professional career that started in the 1978. So I'm kind of Giving away my age a little bit. And so over that last now, 44 years, 43 years, I've seen the changes that have happened in the city of St. Louis, especially the Klein in retail locations, the decline of the office market, and in the decline in the residential population over that 40 years, and city foundries goal, from the beginning in 2015, was finding a way, especially to rebuild the tax base around retail sales in the city of St. Louis, back three, four or five years ago, again, as a city resident, you can even buy a suit in the city of St. Louis practically. So as an architect who travels around the country, I saw what was happening in other cities about creating mixed older, almost brownfield sites, and bad ideas, what spurred me to take on what was the federal mobile site in 2015. And the goal was to try and create a place that would actually have retail sales, that would be mixed use and kind of create the energy and vibrancy for the community to be open to all be welcoming to all no matter your background and where you're from. And to be mixed, you have office, to have retail to have entertainment, have a place to eat restaurants, and to have a place to live. And so in phase one, we created part of that. And then phase two today is what we want to do is to continue that vision. So that's the kind of high level context of what we're trying to do overall with city foundry. And so let me see here. So first, I just wanted to share you're familiar with Lawrence group, that's the company I founded in 1983. large group has been a city business since 1983. We changed the brand of our development company about a year ago to call it new and found. And so when you hear new and found that is the same people, it's still Steve Smith. And some of the people you see on the screen here who are making things happen around redevelopment. I did want to point out, as you can see on the slide here that we've done about $500 million in development over the last 15 years, and all but one project is in the city limits of St. Louis. And I've done that in six wards I've done in the sixth, seventh, the 15th, to 17th, the 19th and the 20th. And we're looking at other words, as we speak, we're very much committed to St. Louis, we're very much committed to trying to rebuild this community and make it a more attractive place to certainly to live, but also for people to move to and to create jobs and to create economic development for all. So this is what we started with in 2015. It changed. Maybe we forget quickly on what on what things look like. But the federal mobile site was operating till 2007. It closed in the last recession. I mentioned earlier, being an architect to traveling the country, I saw how properties like this could be redeveloped. And unlike previous proposals that suggested to tear the whole thing down and build a suburban style strip Center. Our vision was to save basically the historic character of what was a great manufacturing city, and preserve that and repurpose it. And that's what obviously we've done. But this just gives you a point of where we started six years ago in May of 2015. This was the master plan. And so alderman Peale mentioned our original TIF. This also shows the second RPS 123 and four. And so this was the original master plan in RPA. One is the foundry that you see today. And then RP a two and three are what we're going to be talking moving forward in this presentation. So RP one is large. Well, it's complete with the exception of tenants. We would have been complete in total had it not been for COVID. But we've lost well over a year in moving our tenants in because of COVID. We have numbers of restaurants, the Alamo Drafthouse theater, which is still coming the grocery store, which is still coming, but they just been delayed because of COVID. But the overall project of our pa one is complete. And some other photographs of that. We expect I will tell you, we expect the food hall to be opening sometime in August. So that is very nearly the first thing to the public that will open very shortly from now.

Here's some of the sampling of the tenants that we already have in the project. I think I'd like to point out fresh time. That's now called fresh time urban market. This is a bit of a food desert in this area. We have a lot of housing being built here, but there's really there's a shocks on Lindell. There's a schnucks on Arsenal, but there's really nothing in this broad area that can provide food for the people who live in this, this, this part of the city. And then these are some of the other tenants that we have coming in. inclusion and diversity is important to us. I mentioned earlier on that we want to make this beneficial for all. And so when we built phase one, we went through a lot of a lot of logistics to try and have as diverse of a construction crew as possible. And we broke the original project up into small pieces so that smaller contractors could compete effectively. And especially with our tenant build outs, and especially in the food Hall, we've been able to have a much higher level of minority participation than large projects can often accomplish because of the the size and the caliber of the subcontractor market. So right now, our tenants in city foundry phase one, we're tracking a little over 32%, MP participation, and 6% women on business, the food Hall itself, I want to talk about the food all the food Hall is intended to all be st. Louis's it's all about St. Louis's culinary talent, we're going to be we have 16, already committed of the 20 food stalls, half of them are owned by women, little more than a third. It's the first time they've owned a brick and mortar business. So we're helping people start their businesses in the food Hall. Half of those food stalls are owned by a person of color. And many of them it's the first time they've had a brick and mortar location in the city limits of St. Louis. So a lot of first chair, every brand in the food Hall is a unique brand, you will be able to find it nowhere else but at the food Hall at City foundry. And then the other thing we've done, and maybe some of you've participated is on weekends, and we have an event called procure, it's the last Sunday of every month. And it's 100% women on businesses and pop ups like you see on the screen here. Our last one was just two Sundays ago, we typically have about 50, women on businesses show up and they sell their wares. And we make it it's like $25 to participate. So it's a very easy to be able to participate and help these young business owners try and grow their business and become known to the community. We've done a lot to try and do engagement, we've we have the procure marketplace, you can see there, we've done a whole concert series, we had a little bit of a challenge with the neighbors, we didn't realize we're gonna have sound problems, but we had over 10,000 people come to our concert series over the last three months. So coming into the city of St. Louis to enjoy themselves at City foundry. We did 314 day, we did a winter market back in the Christmas season. We also allowed a church back in the early days of COVID, to use our street to do a church service when you needed to be outside versus inside. And we've so we've done a lot of ways of doing non traditional ways of engaging with our community. So we want to create equitable development. And as alderman Peale mentioned, I believe this may be a first time in my experience in the city of St. Louis, we have agreed to contribute $1.8 million $1.8 million, and that'll be effectively at closing. So that's upfront to the St. Louis Affordable Housing Trust Fund. We know that the city has to grow and succeed together. And we want to be an active partner in making that happen. And that's the reason that we came to this agreement to take the success that's happening in the central corridor and trying to extend that to areas north and south. That's the whole goal of why we thought this was a great idea. So that's where we've been in the past. So now we're going to go forward with RPA. And what was RPA two and three. And as alderman Peale mentioned, when we did our master plan, we intended to do two office buildings, the Alamo building in a parking structure. And one little aside here, the Alamo building, we originally planned to build an apartment building on that site, and it was going to be a high rise, and it was gonna be part of phase one. But because the site is on the National Register of Historic Places, we were not allowed to do that. So our goal of having a mixed use development of having places to shop to eat entertained, to work and to live, we could not do in phase one. And so we always had intended to add housing in the future. So what was going to be residential became the Alamo building. And then as you can see on the plan here, we were gonna build two additional office buildings, primarily thinking the support of what was happening in cortex could extend to the area of city foundry, that was the original idea.

So here's the boundaries as we mentioned, we went through the process early on, and and we consolidated what was RPA two and three and RPA two. And so as ultimate peel mentioned here was the original plan. We had our pa two which actually had four phases, each of the four buildings in RPA. Two was considered a phase, the Alma building being phase one that has been built. It's not occupied yet but the building has been built. Phase two was going to be the parking garage, which you saw on that previous plan. And then phases three and four, were going to be two separate office buildings. And the total project costs was just under $100 million. And the TIF that was approved at that time is aldermen peel mentioned was 17. Point 2 million, which meant that our TIF was just under 18% of the total project cost. There it is, again. But because of COVID, we realize that office is not going to be in the demand that it used to be. And so the idea of being able to build two office buildings would delay the future development of this site for we think many, many years. So the idea of re bringing or bringing back the housing that we had hoped to do originally into RPA. happened during COVID. It literally started last May. And as I mentioned earlier, this whole project has been delayed by over a year, year and a half. And we've also seen substantial increases in commodity prices in that last year. So we're proposing an amendment, and that's why we're here it was previously approved. And we're proposing an amendment that fundamentally does two things. Rather than building two office buildings, we're building one office building an apartment building. And we're basically increasing the size of the project substantially, with a very minor increase in the TIF from a proportionate basis. And so as you can see, on the left, the Alamo building is still there because it was built. But the the freestanding building on the right side of where it says Vandy, East is still the same building we had originally planned. But now we're building 280 units on top of a 492 car parking structure. And that will allow us to achieve our vision of having a much more mixed use development on the site. Like having a residential on the site, it'll support the grocery store the food haul some of the retailers on the site, it also allows people to live closer to where they might have a job. And one of our goals is to make this part of the city as car optional as possible, which this would allow us to do. So when you put the two options side by side of phase one is the same. Phase Two is fundamentally the same or increasing the parking garage originally was 400 spaces, it's now 492 spaces. Phase Three, still an office building, we're increasing it from 45,000 to 59,000. It's only phase four that we're changing that what one time was an office building is now a residential building. And as you can see at the bottom here, the project has grown substantially because the apartment building is a much, much larger building than the original office building was going to be. And so the proportion of the TIF is much smaller, as was pointed out earlier. A couple other things I'd like to make note of the office building, we're intending to build out a sustainable materials, that'll be a first for the St. Louis region. The office building is built out of heavy timber but but new wood, St. Louis has a lot of timber old buildings. But all new office buildings in the region are built out of steel or concrete. This one's built out of wood. And a lot of literature has been written about it, it lowers the carbon footprint, it's a sustainable material, and it's a more pleasant place to work in. And you can see on the image on the right, that's what we're going to be creating at the office building at City foundry. That building the office building will also be the region's First, well silver rated building. And many of you may not have heard of well ratings, but the well rating is like LEED, but wellness is on the quality of the building to help the health of the inhabitants in the building. And it's a formal rating. And we will be the first in the St. Louis region right here at City foundry in the city of St. Louis that will accomplish that. And then you can see on the rendering on the right is the parking garage with the apartments above it. And this here is just a little breakdown on where our costs are to develop this.

Here you can see how phase two interacts or RPA. Two I should call it interacts with our pa one as part of our pa one we built a street. We called a parking garage. It's gonna be free for people coming to us our pa one and you could see where the office building in the future apartment building overlook our pa one. So some of the objectives here is we continue to eliminate blight. Obviously this was perhaps the most unattractive part of entering the city from interstate 64. If you're a visitor coming into downtown St. Louis, will create hundreds of construction jobs in this phase and hundreds of permanent jobs. The goal from the beginning is to increase the tax base in the city we need to do that I'm a city resident. So that's important to me as it is I know all your concerns. Once we are catalyzing surrounding development, we're already seeing that happen where other development is occurring around us. We really want to create a walkable environment to lessen the reliance on the auto. And again, as we mentioned earlier, we're making this equitable development contribution. So in summary, this is again, the slide I had earlier here. This is my last slide. This is the overview of over asking for your, your hopeful approval on, we're ready to move forward. We'd like to close this in September, October of this year. And construction would complete about two years later, in will show the continued momentum that's happening in the city of St. Louis, if you support us and allowing us to go forward. So with that, I will turn it back over. I don't know why, alderman. Chairman Boyd Should I leave this on the screen or turn this over to someone else?

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  26:06  
I freeze. Okay. What? I'm sorry, I'm having some technical difficulties auto encoder. Can you hear me? Yeah. Okay, can

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  26:21  
you go ahead and take over for a few minutes while I get my internet stuff situated? Because I'm certainly gonna go over. And just so everybody knows. 

Jack Coatar, 7th ward alderman  26:29  
I'm happy to chair the meeting right now. I will be

abstaining from voting on Mr. Smith's project just because of my firm. My law firms involved alderwoman peel, this is your bill, I'll defer to you. Who Who do you Who would you like to speak next? 

Tina "Sweet T" Pihl, 17th ward Alderwoman  26:45  
I'd like to yield it to Noel Fowler.

Jack Coatar, 7th ward alderman  26:50  
Okay, Mr. Pfeffer from the mayor's office. Looking for you. I'm sure you're out here. There you are. Go ahead and the floor

Nahuel Fefer, Mayor's Office  26:56  
is yours. Hey, folks, appreciate it. But actually, I'd like to toss it to Dale rousset, from sldc, who I think will be speaking on the history of this, although I'm happy to make some additional comments if necessary.

Jack Coatar, 7th ward alderman  27:10  
All right. Thanks, Noel Dale, you're up. Good. Can you hear me? We can hear you. Good, wonderful. Well, this

Dale Ruthsez, SLDC  27:19  
is a project obviously, it's pretty well been outlined by alderwoman CLM and the developer about the history of this project, which has been going on for some time. And what we're really about today, as has already been mentioned, is amending the TIF, which has already been approved and allowing for residential developments in the RPA to which had previously not been allowed. And john ferry who is on vacation has done his scorecard which many of you are very familiar with. And I don't know is we've sent it off to everyone. So hopefully everyone has a copy of it. Both the clerk and each member's member of the committee should have gotten that scorecard. And as as usual, the the scorecard first shows in a gray line towards the bottom what the current tax revenue is being generated by the property and has already been mentioned, the property has no improvements on it. So the amount of tax revenue currently is very, very low. The scorecard then has a dashed line, which is the city average. And it's not much above the solid gray line, which is the city income on average by property similar to this. The blue line then shows the neighborhood average which is a little bit higher than that. And then finally, the yellow line shows what revenue the city will get from this property. First during the period that from now until 2032 and then after that, of course, the yellow line goes up very very high during the first is the scorecard indicates that during the first 10 years, the city will benefit over two and a half million dollars from the project over what's being currently generated. And the school district will have an increase of one point almost $4 million during that period of time. The as as was already mentioned, the overall project cost is now up to $162 million. And the TIF has been adjusted to slightly to $18 million. So it's very positive on on the city return on the project. And therefore it's scores 3.5 out of five overall on the scorecard that we present to you. Happy to answer any questions Other than that, but I think it's been pretty well covered. All other aspects of the proposal. Okay, anything else? Dale? That's it for now.

Jack Coatar, 7th ward alderman  30:29  
All right. All right. Alderman Pihl, anybody else that you speak Before we take questions to the committee 

Nahuel Fefer, Mayor's Office  30:36  
Alderman Coatar, of encoder if I may just highlight a couple salient points? Certainly. And thank you, Dale, for that presentation. I just want to emphasize that that score that john put out, is not quite accurate, because it's actually leaving out one key piece of the equation. And that's the $1.8 million equitable development contribution. So when that scorecard says that the project generates $2.5 million in fiscal benefit to the city, that real number is 4.3 million. And when that yellow line shows that contribution consistently below 500,000, for the first 10 years, which is still well above the city average, that actually doesn't take into account that 1.8 million. The other piece that's really worth emphasizing is that when you take into account the 1.8 million, the net incentive for this project is not just down as a fraction of the project from 17% to 11% of the total project costs, but down on an absolute level as well, from 17 point 2 million to 16. Point 2 million. And then I also want to emphasize that this project is really fundamentally in line with this administration's priorities for equitable development, it passes the buck four tests, because as John's analysis shows, the rate of return on incentivize is 5.9%, which is well below market. Whereas with the incentives, the expected rate of return is roughly 7.4%, which places it squarely in the lower middle of the market rate of return. And then on the other side of the equation, in exchange for these public incentives, all of which this committee already approved prior in exchange for these incentives. They are providing substantial community benefits, as was discussed extensively by alderwoman. Peel, and the developer Steve Smith. 

Thank you, Mr. Pfeffer. All right, alderwoman. Peel. Anybody else that you'd like to present?

Tina "Sweet T" Pihl, 17th ward Alderwoman  32:47  
Thank you all in kotar. I do not have anybody else to present at this point in time.

Jack Coatar, 7th ward alderman  32:53  
Okay, then I think what we'll do is there's three bills here. I know they're there. Their companion bills, essentially, aren't they all the woman? Yeah. Okay. Do we need a brief explanation? Would it be helpful? I mean, committee members, I think we'd prefer to probably take one round of questions about sort of project in general. I mean, unless everyone wants, we can go back and do it for each bill. But I don't think there's going to be significant additional discussion. All right. Do we have all struggle going on in order here starting with

Marlene Davis, 19th ward Alderwoman  33:27  
alderwoman? Davis? No question. So thank you. 

Okay. alderman Cohn. 

Shane Cohn, 25th ward Alderman  33:34  
Yeah, I thank you very much. I appreciate it. Mr. Vice Chair.

I want to ask either Nahuel or someone from SLDC. Or even, you know, alderwoman Pihl... Why the 1.8 million? Why don't we just reduce the amount of the TIF versus sending 1.8 million to the Affordable Housing Trust Fund? So instead of sending it to, you know, a token agency of the city? Why don't we just reduce the amount of the TIF and allow those funds to go directly to the schools to the library, to the community college, etc.

Nahuel Fefer, Mayor's Office  34:21  
I can speak to this if you'd like alderwoman, if you want to add anything. But essentially, where the figure comes from is from the fact that the state recently passed a statute that will allow the city to moving forward in 2020 to divert 10% of TIF revenues from the TIF area to other infrastructure, including housing. And so that was the kind of principle that has actually been signed on to by our state's legislative body. It was sponsored by Carla Mae and we really believe in that as a excellent and useful tool for equitable development, which we will be using moving forward in 2022. This wasn't a vehicle that was available to us. But we liked the principle. And so we brought it to bear in this negotiation. And that's how we arrived at essentially making the request for the equitable development contribution.

 $1.8 million of the TIF or a 10% of the TIF To be frank, we didn't really explore reducing the total TIF amount, it wasn't clear whether that would be a deal breaker or not. But it's a fair question, and one that I take seriously. But that's the logic and how we ended up where we are. Is there anything you would add all the ones?

Tina "Sweet T" Pihl, 17th ward Alderwoman  35:49  
Thank you, Mr. Pepper. Those are the details that we have discussed. And I do not have anything to add.

Shane Cohn, 25th ward Alderman  35:57  
So I, I guess I'd my next question would be for Mr. Smith. You know, if if we were to reduce the amount of the incentive to accommodate the $1.8 million, does that have an impact on your project on your end? To me, it just, it would seem as though you're already out the $1.8 million? Why wouldn't we just reduce the TIF by that amount?

PUBLIC SPEAKER  36:24  
Yeah, so it would be perhaps neutral, from our standpoint, so. So I will say I like the idea of helping homeowners in the city, that individual constituents would see a benefit when something's happening in the central core of St. Louis, that they might benefit in being able to repair their home. You know, that's, that's a very granular way that people could really feel something positive, that's happening in one part of the city helping other parts of the city. So I do like that aspect of it, independent of the financials? Sure, no, I

Shane Cohn, 25th ward Alderman  36:58  
appreciate that perspective, I'm just, I'm more curious on the financial side, if that, you know, if there's any additional benefit for you, you know, to provide that, that 1.8 million versus the reduction in the the actual incentive itself. To me, it also seems like it would be neutral, you know, one way or the other. And I think that the rest of it is more so on the policy side, as to how the money gets, you know, allocated, respectively, to the, either the Affordable Housing Trust Fund, or, you know, to the various taxing jurisdictions that are supported by, you know, real estate taxes, which is, you know, what the TIF is essentially, a beating? And so, you know, for me, you know, I, I understand some of my colleagues excited nature around either, you know, community development benefit agreements, or tax assurances, but, you know, at the end of the day, it's just another way to kind of cut the turkey. And, you know, we're essentially taking money out of the library, the community college, the public schools, that otherwise would be there. And I have to say, you know, from my part, you know, Steve, Mr. Smith, you know, we've known each other a long time. And I certainly appreciate all of the work that you do on the city throughout the city. And just the quality of the work that you do to is outstanding, I know that we've had disagreements on this particular incentive, with respect to the foundry, I nonetheless, do think that it is a really cool, very awesome project. But you know, for my part, I've really struggled with the amount of incentives in the central corridor as a whole, you know, particularly on new construction, and I understand that the cost that's associated with rehabbing those old facilities, you know, such as the old, you know, automotive sight that's associated with this project. But I still really struggle around New construction and incentives for that, and the central corridor where we are seeing a higher rate of return for those types of development projects. So, you know, but I understand that this is kind of taking a more holistic picture in terms of where you would then, with respect to the site as a whole. I guess I'm still kind of struggling just from an administrative and policy perspective as to why we wouldn't just go ahead and reduce the TIF to provide, you know, the additional revenue to our schools to our community college into our library. The zoo museum district also relies upon funding from, you know, the real estate tax as well. 

So, to me, it seems as though we're moving money, you know, from those taxing jurisdictions to, you know, the Affordable Housing Trust Fund and then further limiting that to where half of that's going into the, you know, 17th Ward, which you know, by and large, costs more money at this point in time. Housing production. So we're not going to get quite as much, I'll call it bang for our buck, with respect to low income housing, because we'll have fewer units available because of the increased cost that's associated with redoing, you know, housing and those areas because of the cost per unit for acquisition and otherwise. So I really, I kind of struggle with that a little bit when, you know, areas and, you know, certainly North St. Louis, but then also parts of Gravois, Park, Marine Villa, Mount Pleasant, Dutchtown, even parts of Carondelet and the Patch, you know, also have a need for affordable housing and have those dollars available for investment to provide quality updates for tons of residential communities in the area. So, you know, as it stands right now, I feel like I really couldn't be supportive of the, you know, this particular bill, not because I don't think that the project is amazing, I do. But you know, just from a pure policy perspective, I, I have some disagreements with it.

Nahuel Fefer, Mayor's Office  41:05  
And if I may speak on the policy point, just briefly, I think it's really worth emphasizing that we are not issuing a new incentive here. This is an amendment.

Shane Cohn, 25th ward Alderman  41:18  
I voted against the previous incentive, as well, 

Nahuel Fefer, Mayor's Office  41:20  
Absolutely. But for clarity for the committee, if we reject this amendment, there's still a $17.2 million TIF commitment that the city is already obligated to, that just can't be spent towards the residential tower. That's not to say that there won't be another development on there, there probably will. But it actually won't generate as much tax revenue for the city. In fact, if I'm recalling correctly, the anticipated amount of TIF that the project could sustain the under the original RPA was roughly 17 or $18 million, and goes up to about $25 million under the current version of the project, which actually means because we didn't raise the TIF, very much just 750 that all that extra increment goes to those taxing jurisdictions. So the amendment actually generates more property tax revenue, because it permits a use that generates more property tax revenue. 

As for the broader point about whether we're moving money from schools to housing, 

I think it's a really fair point. And the truth is, we have a housing crisis, we have an education crisis, they're both absolutely critical. In order for people to have a good quality of life, here in the city of St. Louis, the only difference that this does is it moves that money up to the present, it lets us invest it now, instead of giving us a long tail of revenue down 23 years, and in my books, I really think the city is at a turning point right now, and investments we make today will yield dividends down the line. And so that's why I support it from a policy perspective. But I also completely respect your position on income.

Shane Cohn, 25th ward Alderman  42:53  
Now, I, you know, I certainly think that that's a very valid perspective, with respect to the money being available now versus over, you know, a 20 year schedule in terms of revenue. You know, but, again, you know, I want to say, this is a really fantastic project, it's interesting and very exciting to see the development kind of take place and take shape over there. You know, but I do still, you know, have my concerns with respect to, you know, the amount of the TIF again, compliments to the mayor's office, and to the older woman, you know, that we're reducing the size of the TIF and that, you know, we're we're being more creative with respect to that, I really do want to compliment both of your efforts with respect to that. But, you know, I'm still trying to reconcile some of the kind of back end policy related things versus, you know, fiscally, I think that this is certainly, you know, a more responsible, you know, proposal than what we had before. So I'll say that much. I think fiscally, this is certainly more responsible, but I do a policy [inaudible] trying to reconcile that at the moment. 

But that's all the questions that I have for the time being. Mr. Vice Chair.

Tina "Sweet T" Pihl, 17th ward Alderwoman  44:20  
So this is all the woman peel, I just like to add a couple of things. Thank you, all the men. Couple things I wanted to address regarding this. So this particular $1.8 million equitable development, distribution is going to housing repair and affordable housing, the parents not going for production of housing. So you mentioned that in Forest Park in Ward 17, that development cost more. So I just wanted to mention that it's going forward. Housing repair. And I see that there is an intersection between housing and education in schools. And we see that when children are not able to have a stable house or home, because it's for many different reasons, but specifically, in terms of what we're looking at, is making sure that the home physically is stable. And that is really important for kids to be in homes that are stable so that, as we know, when they go to school, they're able to learn better. So that's one reason in terms of how this can directly affect students now and in the present. 

The second thing is that I've been the co chair, but they can see collaboratives anti displacement workgroup for the past three years. And the reason I've been co chair of that is because of seeing that there's displacement of individuals in neighborhoods, and that if we do not get this money, presently, directly, now, there's going to be displacement in neighborhoods and 50% of this money is going to the 17 ward, to not have people displaced in terms of, again, making sure that their housing property is, is stable. And at the same time, as we have developed this, you know, it's bringing this particular contribution in, which is spread out and shared. And one of the things that we have to know is that the north of Delmar has not been a habit has not received the resources that they need. So that is another point in terms of looking at the collaboration and sharing regarding that. And, you know, this is also, and I know, you mentioned some of the other neighborhoods, I know they they do need funding to but we're looking at this as also, this is the first time it has been done. And we could look at how if this is continuing to be done, that it can be tweaked.

Jack Coatar, 7th ward alderman  47:24  
Thank you, alderman. Okay, going forward around wakes, you get recognized because we're gonna be here all day at the current rate. All around since since the

older woman from the 70s had a bit of a rebuttal. Do you have any follow up questions before we move on?

Shane Cohn, 25th ward Alderman  47:37  
Yeah, thank you, Mr. Vice Chair. So I, you know, I would just encourage you, you know, I mean, I certainly appreciate and respect and understand the intersectionality of housing and education that you brought up. But you know, if that's really the point that we're trying to emphasize, from a policy perspective, then perhaps we should be investing in communities where there's a high level of density of low moderate income households that have young people, and look at the density of young people within those communities, because those are the areas that would need that Home Repair money as well. And so, you know, I can speak for myself, you know, 30% of my ward, you know, is both underneath the age of, you know, that school age, underneath the age of 18. It's roughly 30%. And it's roughly about 24 to 26% in poverty. And so, you know, I would say that those are young people that would also benefit from a healthy home, in terms of the, you know, Home Repair program as well. So, you know, I would encourage, you know, future investments and areas that have a high density of young people and low income households.

Jack Coatar, 7th ward alderman  48:51  
Okay, thank you, alderman. alderwoman. Pam Boyd, any questions? 

Pamela Boyd, 27th Ward Alder  48:57  
No, sir. I have no questions. Thank you. Thank you. 

Jack Coatar, 7th ward alderman  49:02  
alderman Collins, Mohamad. Any questions? Looking for alderman Collins, Mohamad. Okay, moving on. alderwoman. Martin. 

Sarah Wood-Martin, 11th ward Alderwoman  49:15  
No questions right now. Thank you. All right, alderman Ryan. 

Bret Narayan, 24th ward Alderman  49:22  
Thank you, Vice Chairman. Just a bit of a statement. I guess 

I do appreciate the work that the older woman from the 17th and the administration has put in on this. And I do share those some of the concerns that my colleague from the 25th brought up I know in 2019, when this was or maybe it was 20. in that session when it was first in front of us, he was one of only four people who did not vote in favor of this. So I also respect the fact that he's sticking to his guns on this now. But I do share the concern that he brings up about essentially over incentivization in the 17th Ward, and this is not the current alderwoman from the 17th's Issue. Just in the past, we have incentivized the 17th ward, virtually every chance we got. And so, I am reluctantly in support of this because it does reduce the, the current incentive there. But I think, moving forward especially, and wards like the 17th, we need to be very cautious, and I'll include the 24th there, I'm not just picking on the 17th word, I'm also very cautious about any incentives that I bring forward in the 24th we need to be very cautious, because we are taking money out of the hands of of our schools and libraries and putting it in the hands of developers. And it gets tougher and tougher to justify that as we continue to develop in specific areas of the city, while other areas do not see those investment dollars. So I I am reluctantly in support of this with that. 

Thank you. 

Jack Coatar, 7th ward alderman  51:22  
Okay. All right. So, next we've got older woman

Unknown Speaker  51:27  
Evans. 

Dwinderlin Evans, Alderwoman ward 4  51:30  
No. Time. Okay. Thank you. I'll go back to all all of my towns, Mohamad, his hand is up. Question all them in columns, Muhammad.

John Collins-Muhammad, 21st Ward Alderman  51:44  
Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Vice Chairman. 

Just one question for the Alderwoman, if she don't mind will she accept my question?

My question is, do you think that is odd that in your two months of being a woman, you have voted against two tax abatement or TIF funding packages in North St. Louis, you have voted against them. But your first piece of legislation is a TIF in the 17? Four predominant right neighborhood? Don't you think that's a little, and I'm going to support this? Because I know that I know that tax subsidies can support and redevelop neighborhoods, and it can have a everlasting impact on our neighborhoods that's surrounding yours, mainly the 19th in the 18th. Ward, but don't you think it's a little odd that your first legislation in your first legislative priority is a TIF package in your community that's already economically developed? That has benefited from millions and 10s of millions of dollars from TIF funding? Don't you find that just a little bit perplexing?

Tina "Sweet T" Pihl, 17th ward Alderwoman  52:57  
Alderman Mohammed, thank you for that question. And I think one thing I'd like to know, I know that in terms of the hotel, I did vote against that. And I did, in terms of that, due to what I felt the Hilton had had enough money to be able to renovate that particular building, and that this was the second tip that was coming up for that particular building. And that was the reason in terms of that. And then I don't remember voting against a second tip for tax incentives. So I can address that. I just don't remember that. I did. vote against this. The second tip for tax incentives.

Jack Coatar, 7th ward alderman  53:57  
All right. Thank you all. All the women Davis, I see you have your hand up. 

Marlene Davis, 19th ward Alderwoman  54:02  
Thank you, Mr. Vice Chair. 

It's a very quick question. I just I was making some notes. And could policy director Give me the date that this new tool they're using is going to be effective for the use of it. 2022 Okay. Oh, sorry. No, would you repeat that? I just got in here.

Nahuel Fefer, Mayor's Office  54:27  
January 1 2022. It's called strict infrastructure funding.

Marlene Davis, 19th ward Alderwoman  54:33  
Okay, I was trying to look it up to thank you.

Jack Coatar, 7th ward alderman  54:37  
Thank you. All right. I know we have president read with us as well, President read and I apologize if I should have gone to you first. Do you have any questions or comments?

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  54:48  
And no questions right now. I'm having problem with my video but no questions.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  54:56  
Okay, uh, Chairman Boyd, are you back? I I am back. Thank you, Mr. Vice Chair, I appreciate all your hard work. So I apologize, I was kind of in and out on some of the explanations. So I want make sure I got some things. Right. So the TIF was originally 17.2. and is now 18.2. Did I get that right? out a woman?

Tina "Sweet T" Pihl, 17th ward Alderwoman  55:24  
I want to peel. It was originally 17.2. And now it's now 18. Yes. Okay. 18. Okay. And it went from the original TIF, 90 million to 150 million. It went from just just a clarification, it was like 97 million to 160 of the developer. Steve Smith would like to clarify that I think I made an error, but it went from about 97 million to 160

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  56:03  
to 160. Okay, and half the funds are going to where the whole 1.8 million is going to the Affordable Housing Trust Fund but half of that will remain specifically in the 17th. Ward correct. And it will be for home repair, not necessarily development, but specific to Home Repair, just like to help the Home Repair program. Correct.

Tina "Sweet T" Pihl, 17th ward Alderwoman  56:31  
It's for the Affordable Housing Trust Fund. When it's there, it has been allocated in terms of the legislation for Home Repair, we would also be working with the healthy homes because those two particular programs for for for home repair. There's a waiting list that, you know, is astronomical, astronomical. And so we'll look at in terms of that to take off, or the people who would be able to apply would be people in this respective zip codes and be able to get their homes repaired. And in what manner form. I also would like to add with that is that there's a possibility and and I've added into this particular equitable development contribution is that if the 70 board and doesn't need to have the people of the 17 board doesn't use all of those funds, that it's going to open up to north of Del Mar because

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  57:40  
right. Okay, guards, I don't mean to cut you off. But I heard you say that, and but I want to respond to that. So how long would you wait, before you realize that the 17th would not be to exhaust all the funds?

Tina "Sweet T" Pihl, 17th ward Alderwoman  57:56  
At this time, it was putting us five years. Hello, I have yours.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  58:04  
Do you realize that in five years, the 17th ward will not exist.

Tina "Sweet T" Pihl, 17th ward Alderwoman  58:09  
Right now? Yes, I do. And so what we have in this legislation is that the 17th automatic says that those boundaries that we have determined that the boundaries that are there now, we're going to continue using those boundaries, the current boundaries of today, even if systemically important does not exist.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  58:32  
And that's in the legislation.

Tina "Sweet T" Pihl, 17th ward Alderwoman  58:34  
And that's it. Yes, it is in the legislation that the current boundaries are going to continue. And, again, I just would like to mention that it will, if we don't use all the money aside in terms of north of Delmar, because we want to just hold on to the time that we need to use those funds.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  58:57  
Right. And, and so let me go back and I'm not sure I won't feel if it's you or if it's Neuhel or Dale Ruthselz. But explain to me again, where the the $1.8 million came from.

Tina "Sweet T" Pihl, 17th ward Alderwoman  59:14  
Okay, so I, Mr. Pepper, will you detail that? Again? He didn't answer that question. And, you know, you told me about this new program that's going to be with the state, etc, and how we framed it off of this new program that will be implemented.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  59:30  
Okay, so let me stop right there. I heard about the new program stuff, but this has nothing to do with the new program. We're talking about what's an existing right now. And so how do we come up with the funds? Currently, not withstanding this new state provision that we don't have to use? Right?

Nahuel Fefer, Mayor's Office  59:50  
Right. So I think why the older woman was talking to me was I was explaining the genesis of the 10% of the incentive amount. So 1.8 million is 10% of the $18 million incentive. And this goes through this principle from the strategic infrastructure fund, which the state legislature

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:00:13  
put in place. Gotcha. Now that makes sense. But so the TIF was originally 17.2. Did we actually increase the TIF? Because I did hear there was some sales, tax abatement and different things like that. So I don't know, if if that metric was used to add to the 1.8, or what so

Nahuel Fefer, Mayor's Office  1:00:42  
I can speak to this if you'd like. Awesome. Okay. So there was a sales tax exemption for construction materials in this deal from the very beginning. Okay, this is a exemption that largely does not affect city coffers, only 5% of the sales taxes come from within city boundaries. But the sales tax exemption was always contemplated, and in fact, also comes along with another $300,000 contribution to the Affordable Housing Trust Fund. So in fact, the developers contributing 2.1 million, but that kind of complicates the story a little bit. So that's why we usually talk about the $18 million TIF and the $1.8 million contribution to the Affordable Housing Trust Fund. 

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:01:31  
Okay, so is the developer actually putting more cash into the project, 

Nahuel Fefer, Mayor's Office  1:01:36  
the developer is putting more cash into the Affordable Housing Trust Fund. And the way it's structured is when the construction note closes $1.8 million from the construction note will go towards the Affordable Housing Trust Fund.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:01:57  
So how do the fees work? Because I, I've heard that, you know, sldc.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:02:04  
Yes, papers. For you. Move forward. I just want to make note of the sales tax exemption was not part of any legislation and was not part of this original deal. And the mayor's office just reported that it was part of there was no, it was not part of the original deal. It was never a piece of legislation adopted by this board to allow a sales tax exemption just like a piece that's before us now. So it was never part of it. And to say because it was one of the things that was discussed when sldc and the former administration was looking at various different tools. So it was part of it is just disingenuous, and I just want to make sure the committee members understand that it was not part of it. We never took that up here before the Board of Aldermen. And because it was something that maybe someone discussed, but never moved forward with it does not give it any justification here today. man responsible.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:03:18  
Let me ask you this Mr. Pfeffer. So the sales tax exempt itself is kind of confused, because what you said and I agreed with was that most of the materials gonna be probably bought outside the cities of St. Louis. And so it doesn't really impact us. So how do you come up with a number? But project? If you How does that work with the sales side, for example, they're not paying any taxes on the material. So how do you how do you how do you? How do you quantify that's what I'm looking for how to how do you quantify that number in the financials,

Nahuel Fefer, Mayor's Office  1:03:53  
the way the process works is that we issue a, essentially a license to the developer, that then they can show this license to the various folks that they buy construction materials from, and then they will count that sales tax. And then what we do is we calculate the construction costs, apply the average sales tax around our region and estimate the value. However, I do need to respond to what President Regis stated. He's right that it was not part of the 2017 2018 package that was enshrined in legislation. And that was a much smaller project that was a $97 million project. It was however, part of the negotiation that Mayor krewson 's office undertook back in February when they were looking at a $138 million project. And they were contemplating the sales tax exemption as positive. And I know this I wasn't there in the room and I don't invoke his venerable name lightly but Otis Williams, specifically we had this discussion and it was a part of the deal that the krewson administration discuss With the found

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:05:04  
something that was

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:05:08  
president lead with this person. Okay, so my question was going to be no. So a discussion is different from what was included in the contract, if you will. So was the cells exemption in the board bill that we originally passed that we're amending now?

Dale Ruthsez, SLDC  1:05:29  
Not in the 27 to 28? Absolutely.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:05:32  
Okay. So it is disingenuous to insinuate that it was part of it would it was, you'd have to, excuse me, I

Dale Ruthsez, SLDC  1:05:40  
did not mean to suggest as part of the 2718 I meant it was part of the deal we inherited.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:05:46  
Okay, so you're saying that the deal you inherited included a sales tax exemption? That's right. But but it did you just say that

Dale Ruthsez, SLDC  1:05:57  
the 2017 to 2018. That set of ordinances is passed to the board did not include it. But the discussions with the krewson administration have had with the developer did include it. But I'm happy that

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:06:13  
way. Man, No, stay right there. Stay right there. So it did not what I heard you say is the ordinance that we passed did not include a sales tax exemption. However, the mayor krewson administration, we're having conversations about potentially, you know, amending this I'm through the USA a man I did to include a sales tax exemption. Right. Is that, so does that sound right? That does? Okay, but you didn't have to accept mail cousens conversations or recommendations, right? Certainly. Okay. So, so you own this. And I want you to know that you own this. So we're not going to talk about what somebody else conversation was, and what they did, because you now own this, because when the veto, when we do it got confused, it wasn't because right now, we just amended, okay, so you own this, and you guys have worked through some creative financing that include with the sales tax exemption, am I good? Fair enough, happy to Okay. Okay. And so, again, the one point, and by the way, this is a fabulous project, and I'm totally on board. I just want to get facts, right. Because, you know, we hear all this noise in these narratives about stuff. And then stuff end up going like this. It's like, wait a minute, that's, that's not what that wasn't my understanding about this new model, and this new way, this new policy, so that's why I'm just trying to because, listen, I want to use as many tips and, and fancy financial, you know, mix deals as possible. So I'm just trying to learn something. So at the end of the day, the sales tax exemption added how much again?

Dale Ruthsez, SLDC  1:08:09  
I believe it added around $1.6 million $1.6

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:08:11  
million. Okay, so $1.6 million dollars, and so that the Ottoman from the 25th Ward, and it was echoed by the 24th board. Their question was, well, why wouldn't we just, we wouldn't have just reduced the amount of TIF. But I understand you saying, hey, look, we get this money up front was a good deal. The first time I ever heard of a community benefit agreement, I didn't hear it in those terms was the city of Ferguson, When I worked, I was housing coordinator at the time, called Emerson electric gave $250,000 back to the city of Ferguson to do Home Repair, to get a TIF. And it was so cool. And it just kept money just kept we circling back in that particular community. So I certainly, you know, agree with you know, what you're trying to do? I just want to make sure the mechanics of it, because what it looks like to me is the developer is getting more incentives to give back some signals. Does that make sense? Am I reading that? Right.

Dale Ruthsez, SLDC  1:09:20  
And that's why I think it's so critical to emphasize that the sales tax construction materials exemption was part of the deal that we inherited, because

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:09:31  
that no, stop, please stop that. Because Because then I'm going to, you know, come on blue. Stop saying you inherited the sales tax agreement, because you did not. You were witness to some conversation that was being had but you could have threw all that stuff out the window, right? Because this is you now this is all about you and what you are in control of you are steering the ship. So I just want to be clear because it's misleading to say What we inherited, because what you inherited was the ordinance as it is today. And what we're doing today is we're amending it in a way that makes sense with administration, which I'm okay with, I'm not gonna debate that argue with you with that I support that. I'm just trying to chronologically to follow how we got from point A to point B, and how it can work for other people. Okay, so let's just be clear, you know, but I want to be clear, and that the narrative that we create is truth. And that we're not trying to say, Oh, well, this one's really us. We just inherited it. And so we went along with it, because we want to get this done. Because you don't have to go along with it. You could just say no. And a developer can legitimately say, Okay, well, we just build, we said, we're gonna read your bill in the back, and no more conversation. Truly, that is, could be where we are today, that the developer will be required to build what originally the TIF agreements were designed to do. Right?

Dale Ruthsez, SLDC  1:11:06  
The place where I just want to be very clear, and I agree with everything you just said, the place where I want to be very clear, is that our administration did not increase the net amount of incentive that the developer is receiving, because the developer was slated to receive 17.2 plus 1.6 million, and is now receiving 18 million plus 1.6. So that went up point 8 million, actually, it's more like point seven, five, but the incentives are awarding went up point seven, 5 million. And then additionally, as part of the negotiation, the there was a $1.8 million equitable development contribution. So the net incentive actually went down once our administration took office by over a million dollars.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:11:50  
That sounds like some fuzzy math to me, I do not understand how that works. I mean, because I'm just looking at 17.2 and 18 million, and I'm just using simple math, because I don't have a real high level education. You know, that's an increase. Absolutely. So but you keep saying it's not an increase, but that is an increase. If the incentive went from 17.2 to 8 million, no matter what happened in the background, the incentive amount was increased. But what I do appreciate what you said, and see, this is where people that you know, get bent out of shape about, you know, over incentivizing, building these 200 plus apartments, I think that was the magic number. Am I right? Correct me if I'm wrong, how many apartments 280 residential units. That's all new, right? That's right. Imagine the earnings tax, you know, the sales tax, and all of these different taxes that's going to be produced that we really, truly can't quantify, because we don't know where people shop, but we can get a good guess, on what value that brings to the community, right. And so sometimes we have to look at the big picture, where we're trying to incentivize people. And I really can see people struggling with this, from the autobahn from the 17th War, because she's part of that train, you know, that, you know, is really adverse to incentives. And but at the end of the day, I'm going to support this, okay, but I want to make sure that everybody understands that every situation is different. 

When when Mr. Smith put up what that old army look like, that's doom and gloom. I don't care what anybody say, not, there's no millionaire, that's going to come in and say, I'm gonna put all my money into this doom and gloom situation. So I can make a few coins. They're not in the business of doing that. They're in the business of making real dollars. And so I just want to make sure that everybody is clear that this is truly an increase in incentive. And it's okay, the majority of the board Board of Alderman is going to vote for this. I predict it will pass our committee today, and we'll pass out the full board. But let's be real with each other. When we're talking about other people's bills, and projects and their awards, that your ideology feels like it's unworthy, but you don't live there. And you don't really have that experience. So I just put that out there for consideration from people that seemed to rise above everybody else that support incentives in a distressed location, because just because even essential Westin and I supports this time, but it's interesting to know, we'll just not do so much over there. But that doesn't mean that there's a pocket on the cusp of those boundaries, that you know, that that touch other boundaries that make it part of blind. So I just wanted to put that out there. Thank you, Mr. Pfeffer. I didn't know if it seemed like the President wants to come back. And I'm going to respect the president cuz I did cut them off because I'm the Chairman, I get to do that. But he is the president. And I don't want to make him mad. He cut me off on the floor. So I'm gonna go back to the President.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:15:15  
Alright. First, thank you, Mr. Chairman, for such a, you know, great clarification that needed to happen. You know, we deal with these projects. And from the time, my time that the board of Alderman, you know, in the sixth Ward, getting Washington Avenue, and that whole central corridor moving, we had to pass incentive packages to do those. 

And right now, the way we're operating in the city, we have a group of Aldermen led by Alderwoman green and, and some others that are that are saying, pretty much all these incentive packages are bad, and they hold the city back and this hurt in our schools, and so on, so forth. But when you look at, you know, the fact that the city has to maintain a competitive advantage, the city has to be able to get some projects moving close the gap where the banks and others won't fill in. And developers are just like any other business, they are in business to make profit. They're not in it to be martyrs, right. So any business, whether you go to the store to buy a candy bar, buy, you know, gallon of gas, or whatever, somebody is profiting from that. The same thing here. It would be beyond naive and disingenuous to think that this developer, like any other developer isn't profiting, this developer is indeed profiting, just like the developers on the other development incentives that that same group chooses to vote against and chooses to speak out against and chooses to do their best to try to kill those. 

appeal, this is your first big project that you're moving in the ward that you're in, you're going to have many more of these projects. But to get down that rabbit hole, where, you know, there's this group, that would say that everything that they're doing is great, but everything everybody else is doing is bad. That that's that's, that is not a good place to be. Hopefully, with this project, you can see the complexities that that lie within each and every one of these. And I've known Steve Smith, for a long time, he is a phenomenal developer, he's one of the best The city has. He's one of these guys that could have done what he's done in New York, LA Chicago, any other major city, but he's chosen to stay here in the city of St. Louis, and we've greatly benefited from the project he's working on is a I mean, extremely, extremely complex project. So hats off to him for taking it on and getting it done. You know, that is an it's a it's a massive project, and it will be a huge benefit to the city of St. Louis. The way they're structuring these incentives, the the map, the biggest challenge I've had with it is the fact that the way they're structured, they're structured, so that we give more to the developer so that the developer then can turn around and, and essentially, you know, give that back to the city so that then we'd have these incentives, we'd have these incentives to be able to put in other places with a portion of that instead of residing right within the 17th ward. It's the car is the cars in the hand that the developer has been dealt by the current administration. And I really don't think I really think is absolutely outside of this control. I think that he he was forced to negotiate. You know, in an unbalanced situation, I and I'm and he's, you know, being a being a person that has multiple, multiple developments in the city and a big stake in moving forward with developments in the city.

It would not be healthy for him or his business to take take any other any other posture than the past and he's currently taking his easy if, if I put my developer hat on is easy to look at and say okay, ultimately there are some benefits from it because this additional money will go to affordable housing to be able to be used in other And other areas of the city, right. And that fits with the narrative that he has carried throughout his time as a developer in this city, so I can understand his position completely. 

I guess what I, what I want to make sure to impart is that, you know, when other projects come up, take a moment and look at the project and give some understanding, and some, some credence to the other elected officials that have brought those projects. Because they, you know, oftentimes have have not oftentimes they've done their homework, their projects have passed the but for test also, all the TIFs that we brought him past about four tests, according to the same people that told you that this one pass the but for tests. The difference is that that cadre of individuals that pick things based on not the project, but based on the person that's carrying the project, will wrap their arms around this one and carry it tall and say that, because it passes the but for test, this is a great project. But when I'm gonna submit to you is some of those very same projects. In other parts of the city, particularly North St. Louis, that same group has spoken out against them, that same group has fought against that same group has done their best to try to stop those projects. And that is, that's very, that's unhealthy.

 So to Steve, congratulations, and thanks for you know, doing even more work. My hat's off. And also sympathies to you being tied up in the situation that you're in. I'm also asking you not to comment on anything that I'm saying. And I don't think it would be good for you to do that. I think your position must be that this is great for the city and I support and I think it's good. Um, you know, I have not asked anybody to vote against this. And I'm not asking anybody to vote or support my position on this at all, because I understand the complexities and the web of politics that this thing is tied up in. Right now, there are two, at least two other projects that have been vetoed, that also have received very high praises from sldc. And saying development agencies that have said that they've given us the blessing, those others were given the same blessing. And to get those projects back on on track, we would have to over overturn the mayor's veto. So alderwoman peel, you should give that gut check in Think about that. Think about some of those same projects that that have passed that same test that you're reliant on here. And that same agency that said that, yes, that's a good project. But they were thrown out. So anyway, I'm, I'm probably, you know, I'm going to vote, I'm gonna do something that I never do, especially on these big projects and stuff. I'm gonna vote present on this on this project. Not because I don't think it's gonna project I think it's a great project. But there's just too much tied into it right now with some of the political underpinnings that that that are tied into it. And it does give me pause that we still that it took,

you know, repeated questioning from the chairman for the mayor's office to just come clean and say, Yes, absolutely. It was not part of the original. Because the narrative that would go from go out from this meeting from any reporter that's listening to it, they'd say, Okay, that was part of, of the original agreement from the men from the krewson administration. And the fact that matter is that it was not part of the the agreement that's on the table that we are amending. It may have been a conversation that they had, but that conversation means nothing until it's codified into law, and through an ordinance through the board wall. So thank you for your time. And, you know, I you know, I I think that this project should pass I think it should make it out of committee and I think it should pass the Board of Aldermen because of all the other underpinnings related to it. I'm gonna vote present. If I have to vote for it to assure that it passes out of committee. I'm probably will To do that, but I'd rather not. Thank you, Miss Chu.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:25:05  
Thank you, Mr. President. I want to go back again, a couple of things. I thought about, no, we are going to learn a lot from each other. And I look forward to this journey. But I just picked up on something you said that was right, but kind of not so right. So you said that, really, the percentage of the TIF is less than it was previously and you are 100%? Correct. However, if you take the the war, the 100 and 50 million in consideration, I lost my notes versus the 90 million it has no choice but to be you know, less than because now you're dealing with a higher number. So I just want to point out it is but it really you don't get credit for that. Okay, you know, you get no extra credit for that. Okay. Which kind of slip any

Nahuel Fefer, Mayor's Office  1:26:04  
credit goes to Steve for bringing in that additional equity.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:26:09  
So the other thing I wanted to ask Dale some because this is a really good learning experience for me learning more about the sales tax exemption we've been around long enough should know better. Dale Rousseff. Dale still with us, I am here. Okay, Dale. So I know sldc is kind of a self funding agency, you guys, I think even the comp office get a little piece of some development fees, or whatever it is. So So how do you how does slbc benefit in this deal? With the fees? How does that?

Unknown Speaker  1:26:46  
Yeah, there would be bonds issued? Actually, in this case, I guess sldc doesn't benefit because it's it's the city that would be doing this one, the sales tax because it's not in a chapter 99 area.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:27:02  
Also you lose out on? Well, we don't lose anything, but we don't gain well, but you don't gain anything. Right. Okay, so you guys are pretty neutral on that. And how long have you guys been doing sales tax exemption on projects? Do?

Unknown Speaker  1:27:15  
We were very late coming to the game on this? It was done throughout the state for I would guess 5678 years, but probably how, I don't know, maybe three years, I would guess. What essentially does, is, uh, we at least we feel this way that instead of giving more TIF or more tax abatement, if we give instead the developer the sales tax, it benefits him a great deal, but it doesn't cost the city much because so little of the materials, as was mentioned before, are actually bought in the city of St. Louis.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:27:59  
Okay, so, so on that the sales tax. So the city I think was it was 73. I was reading some real fast and they all kind of come together. Yeah, I think it said it the city, the city gets about 800,000 sales tax in the state 2 million that have those numbers in front of you that sounds right. That sounds more right. Okay, not even realize that they get exempt from the state sales tax. So it's like just zero. Just note, it's like being in the military shopping at the PX zero.

Dale Ruthsez, SLDC  1:28:35  
That's the reason the city, you know, doesn't doesn't give up a lot when it authorizes sales tax exemption. Right?

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:28:45  
Especially if they buy in the county. So Mr. Smith makes you value material for the county. Well, what

Dale Ruthsez, SLDC  1:28:51  
we have been doing the last few projects and there just been a couple that have been finished, we actually asked the developer to quantify exactly where the materials were bought. And in the couple that we have tracked and Mark spiker Minh has been doing that it's just been you know, 567 percent of the materials have actually been bought in the city. So virtually all the sales tax that is being paid is not in the city and therefore we are not losing very much at all.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:29:26  
And if we have more hardware stores then it would have a negative impact on us but since we only have what Home Depot on kingshighway anywhere else in the city where else we have a home well

Dale Ruthsez, SLDC  1:29:38  
i don't know i don't know how much how much building materials are actually by by major building contractors we even bought from Home Depot, but it's more wholesale houses and materials that are bought by much larger operations.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:29:55  
So on a deal Dale, do you share the fees with any offices? Just just for the new Alderman, I think it's good to kind of know how you are set up yourself funny, you get all these fees. But do you share your fees with any other office? No, that's

Dale Ruthsez, SLDC  1:30:10  
that's how we keep operating. So you get 100%? We do. And, you know, and we have not gotten anything from the city at all for our budget, as you know.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:30:22  
Are there any other offices that collect fees from developers for development, such as say, I'm sorry, pass again? Are there any other office city agencies that collect fees?

Dale Ruthsez, SLDC  1:30:31  
Yes, the Comptroller's office on tiffs and others get fee? Sure. And I'm sure there are others. But I those are the only two I remember and what is the percentage of your fee? Well, it varies on all different, all different things. You know, I mean, for example, we're doing a lot of on MBE and workforce, we're, we have set up a whole program to monitor that. And the fee that we get for that is 1.3%. But then we share that with with the workforce group. Because they're all part of that monitoring process.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:31:14  
All right, we're gonna move on and get these bills out of here. Do one or the other. Thanks, Dale. I appreciate it. Oh, so we back to order one. He'll and I don't care. What we're going to do is we're going to start with board Bill 71. Just give a quick, what does board Bill 71 do I know we talked about the whole package. So this is now for you to micro and say hey, this boy bill does x and the next one does x and then we're out here. Okay, what Bill 71 is before us.

Tina "Sweet T" Pihl, 17th ward Alderwoman  1:31:43  
Mr. Chairman, board, Bill 71 is the issuing of a tax increment financing a TIF for the redevelopment plans it has been amended.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:31:55  
Okay. So I am going to move that we pass for Bill 71 out of committee but to do pass recommendation. Back it's been moved in a second Madam Clerk please call the roll.

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  1:32:05  
VOTE BEING TAKEN Ladies, I mean call.

Me call her abstain out a woman boy. And the memahami

are the one and mourn by Autumn in the Ryan. Hi. On one Evans. I share my boy I president re president automate comm seven I vote when no vote, one voted for president and one abstain

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:33:02  
or your vote you have passed for Bill 71 out of committee with a do pass recommendation next board bill before says board bill number 72 sponsored by Audible.

Tina "Sweet T" Pihl, 17th ward Alderwoman  1:33:12  
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Board bill number 72 is amending and restating the redevelopment and financing agreement for the city boundaries.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:33:22  
VOTE BEING TAKEN Okay, I move that we pass for Bill 72. Our commitment to do pass recommendation. Second, previous roll and move in a second. Any objection the previous row? here no board Bill 72 passed out of committee to do pass recommendation that's before us is board Bill 73. Sponsored by Ottawa appeal.

Tina "Sweet T" Pihl, 17th ward Alderwoman  1:33:41  
73 is getting approval to issue the sales and use tax exemption and also approving the $1.8 million for the equitable development contribution that will be distributed between north of Denmark 50% and 50%. In terms of the 17 four data points.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:34:04  
VOTE BEING TAKEN Okay, I'm moving away passport Bill 70. Throughout the committee to do pass recommendation

Marlene Davis, 19th ward Alderwoman  1:34:09  
said

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:34:11  
previous roll.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:34:12  
It's been moving the second and there's a previous row any objection to previous row? Here nonbillable 70 comes out of committee do pass recommendation. All right. I want to congratulate

Thank you, Mr. Chairman and the members of this committee. Okay. Thank you very much for your support. The next ride on the roller coaster is board bill number two. Mr. President, you are recognized on board bill number two.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:34:41  
Thank you, Mr. Chairman and members of committee. We have a committee substitute that should be in the vibe for board bill number two. I'd like to first make a motion second to get the committee substitute before us and then I'll Have Tom Shepard, my chief of staff to walk through board bill number two, and there are a number of amendments. I have a couple and then there are a few from the members of committee. You'll also find those on the drive. And if anyone's having a problem finding them, please let us know the clerk has done a phenomenal job of, of making sure that there are numbered so that you'll see those on the drive. So with with your indulgence, I move that we bring the we bring committee committee substitute for number two before Second. It's been moved and seconded. Madam Clerk, please call the roll.

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  1:35:50  
VOTE BEING TAKEN out a woman Davis? Aye. I mean call. I mean, coder. I had one boy. Hi. memahami. Alright. On a one on one. I Autumn in the Ryan. Alright. alderwoman Evans. Hi, Mr. Boyd. Hi, President re Ah, and I vote.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:36:26  
Okay. Now what's before us is Borbon. Number two, committee substitute President Lee.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:36:32  
Oh, of course. Thanks for the committee. And thanks to the committee members and members of the board, everybody that took part in this that sent in recommendations, we were able to get a lot of those recommendations factored into the final board this committee substitute, as you'll be able to see, as we walk through, I think this is a just a phenomenal opportunity for the city at large to have a transitional moment, a transitional time where we can begin to transition some of the areas across the city and some of the households across the city that have been long left behind and provide massive relief for COVID. I think that I think that this is our time to get those things done. And, again, I just want to thank everyone that has participated in it thus far. And, Mr. Chairman, if you're okay, I now will turn it over to Tom Sheppard from my office that can walk through the committee substitute. Tom, please go ahead. Proceed.

Tom Shepard, Chief of Staff PBOA  1:37:41  
Good afternoon, members of the committee. Mr. Chairman, the well, first I'll just say that we, as President Reid said, you know, this committee substitute does include many of the suggestions we got from members of the board and some suggestions from the community. Amazing guest has substantially changed from the board bill that was originally introduced. And, Mr. Chairman, would you like for us to do the amendments first? Or would you like me to go over the committee serve as it is?

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:38:24  
Right. Yeah, I think since the committee sub is before is I would prefer that you go over the committee sub as presented.

Tom Shepard, Chief of Staff PBOA  1:38:30  
Okay. All right, if you look at the committee serve. So the beginning on page one,

nothing has changed from the original board bill. These are just the whereas clauses and description of the ordinance. And if you move on to page two, and that really will be the second. Whereas on the copy, you're looking at on page two, sorry, I have to keep bouncing between copies on page two. The second whereas we've entered the actual amount of rescue plan funds that the city has gotten in this first release of funds. So in the previous board, Bill just had an estimate it was 275 million, we got a lot less than that it's $249,000,038 or $38,027. Um, you know, the rest of these, whereas is there's been changes to reflect, you know, again, the actual amount received and the fact that we are on Including in this board bill, which wasn't originally in the board bill. The era two funds, which are the emergency rental assistance bonds, there's $12 million that we, you know, little over $12 million that we also have gotten in those funds are received. And we're including those in the ordinance, they were not originally part of board bill two. So that, then we move on to the sections. And so there's section one, again, it's just going if the only changes that we've added, we changed some of the language describing what the funds are, you know, in putting in language, regarding the local history, your fiscal recovery, we put that language in there, as well as the American rescue plan act of 2021. We just added some language to help describe what the funds are, and added the fact that we're also including in this the era to funds. Section two, the changes in Section two, again, we can include language about the era to funds and comptroller establishing accounts for those as well. And also, we added language that, you know, instead of in a previous original version of the board bill, the breakdown of the expenditures within a department were written within the board bill language in each section. So in this committee sub, all of that detail information is now in an exhibit, which is exhibit one. So that language at the end of section two is new language. Now for these four sections, three, through three through four for Team by three through 15. I'll refer everyone to the to exhibit one. And you know, first of all, just go over the amounts that are included. I mean, that's, that's the meat of it. The dollar amounts in Then, I'll go back to the sections in the board bill, and discuss any of the language changes that are already included in this committee. So I'll give everyone a chance to pull up the pull up exhibit one

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:43:09  
is gonna be in the drive. Yes, it's in the Google Drive. I'm having problems finding stuff. So what folder is it in? I looked, I believe it was in a folder for border bills. That's the only thing. The only thing I said board bills is the original board Bill 73. Well, one 271 7123 and that original board bill number two, I don't see anything else. And

Unknown Speaker  1:43:53  
for Chairman,

Bret Narayan, 24th ward Alderman  1:43:54  
Chairman, do you see a folder that says folder one or bill to committee substitute above that?

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:44:05  
At the top of the top, left, top let me go out again and come back in

Bret Narayan, 24th ward Alderman  1:44:15  
directly above board bill to combined three dot PDF

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:44:23  
Am I Oh, Okay, there we go. Okay. Yeah, at the top left, got it. Okay. And then. Okay, thank you. Absolutely. I'll give everybody a minute. Everybody should have received this within 24 hours. And I would be surprised if anybody did not read this because it was a talk of the town you know, all night long. So Tom, would you go ahead and talk through the the language and how language changed and what it means so that we can you know, Move on to questions from the committee and you don't want me to go through the numbers the amounts on the exhibit Yeah, I do. I thought you want to go through and explain you said somebody explaining the the narrative of something Yeah, I was going to

Tom Shepard, Chief of Staff PBOA  1:45:14  
I was going to go over exhibit one first the numbers the actual dollar. Okay, go ahead and take it away categories and then go back into the language. are you sharing your screen? I'm not okay. I'm

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  1:45:30  
working on because we can also have we can have I think Mary man presentation we got Mary share it and walk through it or you can share it from your desktop, by the way.

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  1:45:43  
I'll put it up.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  1:46:07  
And Mary, is there any way you can expand your zoom your screens? Oh, man, that's looking good. go one more time.

Sharon Tyus, 1st ward Alderwoman  1:46:21  
How's that? Look? Can you go one more time? It looks good to me. Oh, you got it. Alright. Alright, so

Tom Shepard, Chief of Staff PBOA  1:46:34  
one, more about two committees up. If you look at the first section, first department, Department of Health. There's 1237 categories with an appropriation amount listed on there. These are the exact recommendations that were presented from the stimulus advisory board. So these are the exact amounts of 500,000 for canvassing and community outreach. 1 million for community health workers 2,250,000 for behavioral health providers, 5 million for community violence intervention programs, a million for usually a programming a million for mobile vaccination clinics and half a million for vaccination, education and marketing for a total of 11,000,002 50. Again, this is these are the exact categories and amounts as recommended by the stimulus advisory board. The next section, Department of Human Services there's $35 million dollars. Um, let's see Was it 2012 about 14 line items $12 million is for the red zone utility assistance. This is coming from the era two funds and you can look to the right of the exhibit that shows the source these are coming from the era two phones there's a 2,500,000 for mortgage assistance 500,000 for real and personal property tax forgivable loan fun. quarter million dollars for accounting and legal compliance $1,250,000 1/10 no encampment. There's $1,386,370 for safe haven $8 million for emergency shelter $750,000 for case management and program operations $1 million for a call hotline and centralized intake $1,250,000 for wraparound services, one and a half million for bridge housing. 3 million for rapid rehousing and one and a half million for permanent supportive housing. Similar to the Department of Health the categories listed above for the Department of Health the categories and amounts for the Department of Human Services are the same as was recommended by the stimulus advisory board that was appointed by the mayor. The next section, Affordable Housing Commission got six line items totaling $5,600,000. One and a half million dollars for public benefit navigators. $400,000 for legal assistance. $450,000 for mediation $2 million for Tiny Homes, a quarter million dollars for community outreach, and a million dollars for community driven food production, processing and distribution. But again, a total of 5,600,000. And as in the previous two sections, the sections, the line items and amounts appropriated to Affordable Housing Commission are the same as was outlined by the stimulus advisory board. next section we have the St. Louis Development Corporation. There's a 10 line items here and amounts and I'll go over them. Two and a half million dollars for small business and nonprofit revolving loan fun one and a half million dollars for technical assistance hub $450,000 for job training for software development, data management, and analytics $100,000 for Workforce Development $5 million for St. Louis city small business grant fund $20 million for citywide Housing Development Fund $20 million for Dr. Martin Luther King Economic Development Fund $3 million for North grand Boulevard Economic Development Fund $5 million for West florissant Economic Development Fund and $5 million for Natural Bridge economic development fine. Now there have been some items that are added in this that well, that they bought, they're all been added to the board billing this committee. So because the stimulus advisory proposals were not part of a board bill, but if you know for those that want to compare

what's in the board bill versus the stimulus advisory board recommendation what's been added to the current to the board bill is 450,000 for job training for software development, data management and analytics $5 million for St. Louis city small business grant fund $20 million for the city wide Housing Development Fund $20 million for the Dr. Martin Luther King drive economic development fund $3 million for the North grant Economic Development Fund $5 million for the West florescent Economic Development Fund and $5 million for the Natural Bridge Economic Development Fund. Moving on to the next section CDA, there are seven line items being fun with that are appropriated in this committee. So under CDA, there's 1 million for food assistance, one and a half million foot direct support for care workers, which will include a greement with the Mental Health Board $250,000 we gateway go $250,000 for the digital literacy, education and community outreach, which will include a agreement with the St. Louis Public Library $2 million for saying your services $2 million for supporting providers of early childhood education and childcare and $15 million to fund our healthy home repair program. For those who would like to know the difference between what's being appropriated to CDA in the legislation compared to the stimulus advisory board proposals, everything that the stimulus advisory board recommended is in the board bill. And in addition to that, there's 15 million going to our city's healthy home repair program. Next department or agency that has line items made up where they're getting money appropriated through the board bill is St. Louis agency on training and employment also known as sleep is a total of $4,900,000. A little over two and a half million for year round youth jobs. A little over a quarter million for case management and wraparound services. A little less than a quarter million for Summer Youth jobs $900,000 for adult education, literacy and skills training and a million dollars for Child Support arrears for individuals entering the workforce. Again, it's a total 4,900,000. And these the appropriated amounts and line items in the committee's, are the same as the recommendations that were presented from the stimulus advisory board. Next department is Parks and Recreation. There are four items for line items in the committee $464,000 for learning labs $650,000 for Nothing But Nets basketball $500,000 for behavioral health, recreation, programming, and $100,000 for new dimensions soccer program. The first three line items, learning labs, Nothing But Nets and behavioral health recommend recreation programming were all recommendations of the stimulus advisory board. new dimensions soccer program for $100,000 has been added or is in the committee sub and was not a part of the recommendations of the advisory board. Next department with nine items having money appropriated to them is the Board of Public Service. There's three line items $1,500,000, for expanding broadband and public Wi Fi 750,000 for intentional encampments, and a quarter of a million dollars for equitable micro transit services. Line the items are the same as was recommended by the stimulus advisory board except the line item expanding broadband and public Wi Fi has been is $1,500,000 the stimulus advisory board had recommended $1 million. So that line item in the board bill is higher than what was recommended by the stimulus advisory board. The next department is Information Technology Services Agency. There's two line items, data analytics and software is $662,000. And high speed WiFi and rec centers is $100,000

for a total of $762,000. These line items and dollar amounts match the recommendation from the stimulus advisory board. The next line item in the board bill is the planning and urban design agency planning and urban design agency for neighborhood and Capital Planning. There's a million dollars appropriated in this board bill and that is the same amount as was recommended to this department and then line item by the stimulus advisory board. Next line item department is the police department. Borba to committee sub has appropriated $5 million for uniformed police officer overtime. The next line item is the Comptroller's office. There are for the neck department I'm sorry, as the controller's office, there are four line items 150,000 for auditing services 150,000 for accounting and monitoring staff 125,000 for financial services compliance and sub recipient monitoring and 25,000 for legal services, annual and quarterly reporting. Um, the This is different from the stimulus advisory board's recommendation and that there's more money and more duties under the Comptroller's office. Then the financial services compliance and sub recipient monitoring and the legal services and you want quarterly reporting. We're part of the sap board going to be items under the mayor's office. But what you know the cop shows up as being the finance department of the city. It's a more Appreciate that those items would be under the Comptroller's office. Also, in the original SAP proposal, those line items they were in the mayor's office, and they were 250,000. Each, and the committee said they are 125,000 each. The next department having money appropriated to it in the committee sub is the mayor's office. There are four line items. There's 125,000 for consulting services, which will include a profit project manager and transparency portal 75,000, for project management staff $37,500 for translation services, and $75,000 for marketing and communication against someone new original r&d proposals, that recommendations submitted by SAP, financial services and legal services were under the mayor's office that's changed. And the amounts that the STB boy recommended were roughly double for all the foreign line items than what's currently included in the committee. So there were a couple of other items that were part of the sap recommendations that are not part of the committee sub, there was a $5 million that was for the treasurer's office, which there was nothing given to the sponsor, and I don't think any committee before this committee sub was entered on exactly how that money would be used. And so they didn't have any kind of real way of explaining where that money would go. And, and so it was left off of this committee. So and also there was $1.4 million for just various things, I guess, a contingency pot that we, you know, didn't have any indication of how it could have been spent on what the parameters would have been on how it was spent. So that's not part of exhibit one of the committee. So.

So now I can go back to some of the changes in the boy bill. Okay, you still got to talk. Okay, so I'm going now back to the boy bill language, and the various sections, and some of the language changes that are included in the board bill. So again, a board bill two was introduced as a boilerplate board bill, there weren't any amounts in it. It was introduced to get the legislative process started. Um, Section three, you know, so the language was substantially changed from the original board bill. A lot, a lot of the language in the original board mail is now not in Section three, because again, as I mentioned earlier, in the original board bill, the the breakdown of expenditures that I just went over in the exhibit were included in the board bill language. So that breakdown is no longer in the board bill in the committee sub. And the actual dollar amount that is listed in the exhibit for department Human Services is now included in the language in section three. And that's, and there's also a reference to exhibit one. That's the really what the language changes due for Section four. And section three, sorry, Section four. These are the era to funds that were not anticipated in the original board bill is introduced. So this is acknowledging that, you know, we're appropriating a little over $12 million in era to funds and that like the amounts in section three We'll be under the Department of Human Services. So we added the fact that we've received those funds that are being appropriated to be. And we're authorizing the Department of Human Services to make negotiate and execute any and all contracts. And we're making reference to exhibit one as well. There's also language and this language comes from this stimulus advisory board for some of the money that they recommended to be appropriated under the Department of Health and Human Services. Like I stated earlier, the money that this board bill appropriates to the Department of Human Services is, are the exact same amounts and line items, as were recommended and presented by the stimulus advisory board. So there's language added within this board bill that was not in the original board bill, that gives the authority of the Director of Human Services to execute an intergovernmental cooperation agreement with the St. Louis Housing Authority. In regards to use of some of the era to funds,

there's also believe some other so later on, in in the board bill, there are some other

agreements that were asked that this board bill would be authorizing. But there's no more in this section. Section five, again, the language has changed substantially. Most of it, because instead of detailing how the amounts will be spent within the border bill section language, that detail is included in exhibit one. So there's a reference to exhibit one. And now that we, you know, actually have money, know how much money we got. And we didn't know that when the board bill was introduced, there's, you know, there are actual amounts for these different departments and categories included in the border bill. So section five, when appropriate $5,600,000, to the Affordable Housing Commission. And there's, you know, again, reference to exhibit one, which was not in the original board bill, and like the original board bill may not have in this section, and then have the Affordable Housing Commission, the section in the original board bill, related to money going to the St. Louis Development Corporation, which is going to be covered later in a later section of Section six. Again, you know, I won't say this again, but all of these sections are going to be changed substantially. A lot of it going to be due to the fact that there was an exhibit now detailing the spamming as opposed to detailing the spending within the ordinance language to Section six shows an appropriation of $62,550,000 to the St. Louis Development Corporation. And that's 62,550,000 is detailed in exhibit one.

Unknown Speaker  2:08:58  
Additional language that's added that give some small detail to

Tom Shepard, Chief of Staff PBOA  2:09:07  
one of the programs that's included the North St. Louis commercial corridors. funding, there's an amendment in the Dr. That adds a lot more detail, but I'll just read what's in the committee. So for now, additional language. This funding includes going to build wealth and community along for areas comprising eight and a half miles of historically underserved North St. Louis commercial corridors by providing grants to stabilize small businesses and economic development, nonprofits as well as grants to cover a percentage of costs for business development projects, when paired with funds by the African entrepreneur and we want to Section seven and And also section six. This does anticipate, as I stated earlier, this anticipates more money going to the St. Louis development court for those programs than was recommended by the sad. Section seven is appropriate $22 million to the Community Development Administration, as was outlined in exhibit one. And again, they're what's included within this is $15 million for the healthy home repair program. There's also as I stated earlier, there were going to be some other agreements that were contemplated that we would also be given authorization to enter into in this ordinance. One would be the executive director of CTA or his or her designee is authorized to execute on behalf of the City to inter governmental cooperation agreements with the St. Louis Mental Health Board, we would transfer up to $2 million dollars to support providers of early childhood education and childcare, and up to 1,500,000, to the St. Louis mental health board to support providers of direct support care. And that's also included in exhibit one. So these are the amounts and you know, there's also an agreement contemplated that we will give authority to to enter with the St. Louis public libraries, as well. So that's included in the language. And those amounts are also detailed in exhibit one. But within the board bail in this section, we give Express authority to the department director to enter into those intergovernmental agreements. And I believe that's the only only two in this section, section eight is hereby appropriated $11,250,000 to the Department of Health. There's reference to exhibit one, that we just went over on how that money is being used. And you know, any written detail is removed from the section language and, and all the detail is in the exhibit, section nine $1,741,000 to the Department of Parks. This is a the amounts how they're used, again, are detailed in the exhibit that I just went over section 10. appropriating $4,900,000 to slate as outlined in exhibit one. And because the same dollar amounts and items that were suggested by the sap board, section 11 $762,050 to the Information Technology Services Agency, as in as an exhibit two, there's a reference to exhibit one, showing that the details can be found there.

Section section 12 appropriates a million dollars to the planning and urban design agency, as shown in exhibit one. Section 13 is hereby appropriated the sum of $2,500,000 to the Board of Public Service

for the items described in exhibit one. Again, you know, from the recommendations from the sap we added money for Wi Fi and broadband 500,000. Section 14 propriate $550,000 to the controller's office, as outlined in exhibit one for monitoring and financial services. Section 15 outlines $312,500 to the mayor's office, to be used for marketing and project management and the other things outlined in exhibit one. Section 16 is not new language not related to the exhibit section 16 deals with monthly reports being made to the Board of Aldermen on the spending of the funds. It provides that on the 10th of each month after the bill passes until April 2023. The mayor's office shall present to the Board of Aldermen hoods committee and provide a written report regarding planned expenditures and detailed expenditures made to date. The plan should detail how data will make an informed decisions are in line with healthy equity principles addressing COVID-19 and clearly but not limited to collecting, analyzing and reporting data disaggregated by age, race, ethnicity, gender, disability, neighborhood and other socio demographic characteristics. So basically, this section provides that the mayor's office will give the board hertz committee a monthly report on the spending and how their spending is having the impact that it should have.

Section 17 is new language that does not relate to the exhibit directly. It this this is language that was requested by some members of the Board of Aldermen regarding the intentional encampments and for no federal funding to be used within their wards towards creating an intentional encampment. So I'll give you the wards I won't give you the I won't give you, just a second.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  2:17:04  
Hmm, yeah, we don't need the boundries ward numbers, good enough. 

Tom Shepard, Chief of Staff PBOA  2:17:07  
Right, right. I'll give you the wars Ward Two. Word three. Ward four. Ward Five. Ward fourteen. Ward 16. Ward 19. Ward 21. Ward 22. And Ward 27. All asked to have their wards exempt from any of that kind of spending. 

It's also section 17, which I think there's an amendment. on this subject. The section 17 relates to conflict of interest, new language to prevent the appearance that confidential information authority or influence on any governmental decision could have been gained through involvement in the stimulus advisory board. organizations who had employees and board members as representatives on the mayor stimulus advisory board would not be allowed to contract for any of the services for which funding is appropriated in this ordinance. Again, I believe there's some amendment language that deals with that section 18 and 19 severability and emergency clause. And I'll take any questions, I guess. Okay, so that you can send it back to you. Yeah, thank you. So Mr. President,

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  2:18:44  
we're back to you, sir. Right, thanks. Um, as you can see this big, some big board they have but this subject and we've done a lot of good work on every corner of the city with this board bill. There are a number of amendments. And the clerk like I said, the clerk has today. They're out on the drive free, everybody has some. But the First Amendment is being offered by the aldermen from this Seventh. So, Mr. Chairman, with your indulgence, I'd like to

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  2:19:23  
invite actually, Mr. President, what I wanted to do is I want just go around the committee and have the committee, you know, ask questions about the substitute. And if they want to offer an amendment specific to that area, that they have a concern, just let us know. And then we'll come on the back end and do ammendments. Okay. Okay, so, our woman Davis.

Marlene Davis, 19th ward Alderwoman  2:19:48  
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't have any specific questions. I think that those things that have been added and or changed are very Appropriate at this moment, I'm probably still a little concerned about how we actually do as much as we can to promote improvement with the vaccinations, as well as working with crime crises. And what brings me to that

Sharita Rogers, Clerk  2:20:25  
needing to let the windows up in the corner.

Marlene Davis, 19th ward Alderwoman  2:20:28  
New York has just declared that their crime problem is a health crises. And I could tend to say the same thing for the city of St. Louis. And we may need to add some additional things later on. But I believe this is a good beginning. And I know that we'll have to come back through this process again. So I will hold my additional thoughts, or any other appropriations until that time. Thank you.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  2:21:02  
Thank you all to my call. 

Shane Cohn, 25th ward Alderman  2:21:10  
Thank you, Mr. Chair. I appreciate the time. This afternoon. I know it's been a long meeting. I've got a ton of questions, I, I suppose is now the time to also offer amendments, or know

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  2:21:26  
what I'd like you to do is to talk about what was great about the bill, which you have concerns about and what amendment you like to offer when we come to ammendment to fix whatever concern that you have? Sure.

Shane Cohn, 25th ward Alderman  2:21:40  
Thanks for the clarification. So I guess you know, I'm also curious, I know that we got feedback from our aldermanic colleagues last week, you know, the chair, solicited our feedback on ideas, the past week or so. But, you know, part of the reason that we undertook this process was also to get more public input. So I'm just curious what, what public input has come in? Where did it come from? You know,

is there someone from the president's office that might be able to answer that? 

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  2:22:16  
Well, let me start off as Chair telling you, first of all, and foremost, the public input came from the three hearings that we had, we had, you know, two back to back, was it last week. And then we had was a week before last. It's all running together now. But we had two and then one was specific to businesses. But we also included other people as well. And I actually learned quite a bit, you know, from that public input. That's how some of the recommendations actually got put in the committee substitute. But also, recommendation from the colleagues. Some people were very, very thorough, like all the woman Heather Navarro, Cara Spencer, very detail and some of the regulation concerns and other colleagues were just okay with it as presented. So I respect I personally, as the chairman, respected everybody's considerations. But at the end the day it wasn't my board bill, and I let the president respond to you know, that question as well.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  2:23:16  
Yeah, I just want to thank the members of public that showed up at the meetings that sent emails and picked up the phone and called to give us their their questions, comments and concerns. And as you said, Mr. Chairman, some of the things in this bill reflects some of those. So yeah, and I'm just appreciative of everyone who took the time to do that. Mr. Chairman, and members committee, as you remember, we were very generous on the front end of giving the new mayor as much time as we could, to, you know, come into her office and get our affairs in order. And to get organized and to figure out what her priority is. It took over 45 days to get that done. We were up against a very tight deadline with with our stuff. But I'm really happy with outcome. I think we've gotten a lot done in a very short period of time. And I think we've made the bill. Okay.

Unknown Speaker  2:24:28  
My question, though, Mr. President, as you know, I wasn't able to purchase a page and one of the meetings last week due to a funeral. But, you know, aside from that, you know, we did have the online tool for submissions, you know, what came through there? How many came through what were they for? You know, I haven't seen those as a member of the committee. I'm curious what the public has to say I'd like to to know, I believe that those went to your office or the clerk and and so I mean, that was would be helpful to know what those are. So that was my ,

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  2:25:05  
we'll we'll send you a copy of, you know, all the written comments that were made. believe that those also have them will be shared with the clerk so that he can distribute them all. Okay.

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  2:25:27  
And to that point women up to that point, I'm glad you brought that up on Alderman from the 25th ward. What I requested information early on, you know about from the sentiments Advisory Committee about data, and I haven't received it, so I can certainly appreciate it. I'm glad you asked this question, because I actually put out about the portal. So

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  2:25:44  
thank you for asking that question. Once from the mayor's office.

Shane Cohn, 25th ward Alderman  2:25:49  
And I think you know, the diversity of the data in the comments is the key thing. Wait a minute in time. Oh, sorry. Sorry, autumn account. Thanks, Mr. Chair. So, you know, I, I certainly recognize a lot of the needs that are identified in here. You know, I

think that, you know, there are certainly many, many more that can be addressed. And there's, you know, different phases that we're going to be addressing these things in. And so, you know, I can appreciate that. And, you know, certainly

we'll look forward to future discussions around additional spending. You know, I do have questions, I kind of briefly talked to the chairman about this before the meeting. I am just curious, though, not that I'm opposed to it. I'm actually very supportive of these types of things. But, you know, federal dollars usually require certain reporting and even time periods for spending. Otherwise, we lose that money. And so with the kind of, I think it was three different corridors MLK, Morrison, North grand, it was 404. You know, what, like, Are there plans? For you?

Jeffrey Boyd, 22nd ward Alderman  2:27:18  
Sure. I'm glad you asked that. So thank you. And I'm just want to say I'm over excited about the opportunity. Again, we all should be looking at this as a wants an option once in a lifetime opportunity, up support from the federal government. And yes, you're right time is of the essence on spending these dollars. But we have to spend these dollars as in a way that can actually help rebuild our communities, right. I mean, I still do support all the social service sectors and doing their part. But we also need a lot of brick and mortar. And let me talk to you just a little bit about the corridor. So 20 million hours for MLK corridor, am a query court or from the city limits to Jefferson is what it's designed to support. So it's basically starts in the 22nd. And then you move to the 26, you move to the first you move to the fourth, you move to the 18th, you move to the 19th, you move to the fifth. So there's about seven different older people that that touches. And you know, what I'm so excited about is people say so often that you know, MLK is like the worst street in every major city that you go to is a lot of slum, there's a lot of blight. And I'm even more excited about our new director of St. Louis Development Corporation. And it's no richeson. And you know, being a young man that grew up in our community that really understands, you know, the issues that African Americans go through, and I want to be supportive of him and what he wants to bring to the table. And so this is just a great partnership for us to start off with, we need to do I like that term warp speed when they talk about the Coronavirus, and we need to move at warp speed to come up with a vaccine, we need to move at warp speed on rebuilding our neighborhoods. And so $20 million along that corridor that's an average of per mile, about $4.3 million per mile. Now, of course, it's not going to be equitable, like the first word gets so much and the 26 gets so much. It's wherever we can attract developers to build this is our time. And in some portions of these quarters, there are people actively working on plans. Some, I think, on grand for example, there was some organization that applied for some money and they didn't make it and and what's so cool about this whole experience is the city only has a certain a small pot of money with with the home phones with with the block grant funds with affordable housing funds, and you'll have 10 applications, but you may only be able to find four out of those 10. So now we can go back to those six because that's what we call shovel ready. They're ready to go. They just didn't get funded, and so on.
