
7-16-21 | Board of Estimate and Apportionment | Full
Fri, 7/16 1:15PM • 52:55
SUMMARY KEYWORDS
board, bill, funds, section, louis, federal guidelines, brown, people, city, document, census tracts, president, reuben, guidelines, arpa, legal, compliance, question, aldermen, assure
SPEAKERS
Matt Moak, City Councillor, Stephanie Green, Clerk, Darlene Green, Comptroller, Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman, Tishaura O. Jones, Mayor

Tishaura O. Jones, Mayor  00:06
Good morning, I like to call the special meeting of the Board of estimate and apportionment. To order. Mrs. Stephanie Green, please call the roll. 

Stephanie Green, Clerk  00:17
Mayor Jones 

Tishaura O. Jones, Mayor  00:18
present.  Comptroller Green. 

Darlene Green, Comptroller  00:22
Here, 

00:23
President Reed

Tishaura O. Jones, Mayor  00:25
 here. I'll present wonderful items presented for the first time. Item number one request from the president and Board of Aldermen for approval for build number two committee substitute as amended. This ordinance authorizes the seat and appropriates funds related to the covid 19 pandemic under the American American rescue plan act of 2021. Otherwise known as ARPA.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  01:03
Madam Mayor. Yes. I move for adoption of board bill number. Two commissioners substitute as amended is listed on the agenda. Hey, there is no second. Ah. Well, I have a couple of questions. I'd like to inquire of Matt Moke. The interim city councilor. I didn't I wasn't able to hear you. Here. Okay. Um, Matt, are you there? Can you hear me? Yes. All right. Thank you. So, you know, much has been made in this last few days about a legal opinion. with your name on it that says that. Board bill number two committee substitute, as amended is an illegal board bill. Oh, in reviewing your legal opinion. And if you carefully read through your legal opinion, I'm not gathering that from completely from this opinion. And I'll point to a couple of things within it. And also, we'll note that just so you know, that the author of the original document was Ted Williams, by Ted Williams and Reuben Brown. I had a conference call yesterday with Ted Williams, Reuben Brown, to gain further clarification of his memo and the the meaning and the intent of his memo. It was was that document share with you? His response, I asked him also to codify our conversation, and they email and send it back. And I know the mayor's office received a copy of it and that

Matt Moak, City Councillor  03:27
I received Yeah, Mr. President received it probably about 10 minutes ago. I agree with I agree with what Ted wrote. 100 personal. Okay, perfect.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  03:38
Thank you. Because essentially, what he wrote was, was, ultimately is the manner in which city expands the font, and not the language in the bill itself, that determines whether the city is in compliance with the Treasury Department guidelines. And that's the underlining issue here because I don't know that, you know, some people when they read your what was put out as your legal opinion, they put it out as a legal opinion that clearly showed that board bill number two committee substitute was an illegal board bill. And the whole time we've been contending that that is not factual. It ultimately is the use of the funds. And, and the compliance piece that we put in place. And the final programming that we put in place that determines that the city is shown and the consultant services that we've used in the past have shown that we've been able to do this quite well. We did it when we sent money over to St. Louis Development Corporation, $5 million to them to administer a small business Since development loans, and they put as Rob or put together a really good program that made sure it checked all the boxes. Is Is it also your understanding that arper rules continue to be refined? And we are to see another round of of rules coming up here? I think it's in August or September.

Matt Moak, City Councillor  05:32
As President, yes.  This reminds me of 2020. Of course, when we were faced with a similar situation where the US Treasury guide guidance was well late to the game, frankly. And so we had to make a lot of decisions early on before that guidance arrives. And this situation strikes me as very similar. Getting back to my memo, though, briefly, I think my my concern, and it remains is that the four corners of board bill two committee substitute does not explicitly meet the ARPA guidelines. And I think that's bad practice. I the idea that we house our house, okay. Well, the idea that we can, we would legislate something that on its face, does not appear to meet the guidelines. I think that's bad practice. I the idea, you know, the concept that we can come in after the fact and somehow cure that. I'm not saying it couldn't be done. But as you know, as Ted indicated, and email you just mentioned, and I saw very recently, it the best way to approach this is to outline from the very beginning, including in the board bill, how the money meets federal guidelines as we know them today. Now he had

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  06:56
I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I'm sorry for cutting you off, but  it's okay.  Before the board meeting starts in 15 minutes. I want to make sure we stay on point. He did not he did not state that the way you just outlined what he what he but what he did say throughout the process of administering the funds, it is in the city's best interest to make clear that the funds will be spent in accordance with federal guidelines. That's what that's that's a direct quote from from from us

Tishaura O. Jones, Mayor  07:38
if you continue that paragraph. 

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  07:41
Yeah. And I'm about to I'm about to,  he says For that reason, I would recommend, I would recommend that the board bill and any associated policies and contemporary contemporary contemporary contemporaneous documentation supporting the actual expenditures, all explicitly document that any funds spent on economic development are specifically intended to address then the negative economic impact on the pandemic.  So, so let me Let's go, let's go back to that. In your original member of Section 2.1. In the last sentence, under answer, it says, The Treasury will presumed that certain types of services are eligible uses when provided in a qualified census tract. Are we provide are these services provided being provided in qualified census tract? Yes, I believe they are. I would think they are too, especially given the fact that the amount of funding that we're receiving is based on the CDA formula. And the CDA formula takes into account concentrated poverty, disinvestment, and all these things that we see happening within these corridors. Right. So when we, when we formulate the final program, just like we did with small business development, just like we did, we just did in the last spending package that we included. Part of what goes into that formulation is, is the vetting is the determination of who's qualified, not all of those things happen. On the back end, all those things happen during the formulation of the program. And further out, you know, as a further example, you guys chose to pull out section six of this board bill, which sends money to North St. Louis button. No other section. But the other sections included in the same board bill does not does not explicitly call out that language that you're saying. My fact in the in the preamble at the beginning of the board bill, we laid out clearly that that these funds are to be expended in accordance with ARPA. Right. So there are four rules. So my question to you is, is there anything in this board bill that prevents the city from setting up a program and extending the funds in an appropriate manner?

Matt Moak, City Councillor  10:40
I mean, I can't as President, I can't really speak to what's going to happen in the future? Well, I never, I'm sorry, I never tried to I just tried to express that there was concern on the four corners of the document explicit language, that the ABA guidelines are not made, specifically in Section six.  And I do understand that other parts of the barbell, which I don't profess to be an expert on by any means, but I understand that members of the administration have a meeting room and brown for months to determine whether or not those expenses on their face appear to be eligible under ARPA. And I understand they generally all were documented in such a way that they would be the section six was not and I, I don't want to speak for Reuben Brown, but I know they were the I have seen documents where the 53 million that we're arguing about essentially as disallowed next to it. They're the experts, and they've spoken. And so what could be done in the future to cure it? Or? Oh, you know, it's very hard to speak with that. But that was the that was the reason I wrote the memo was I was concerned about the explicit language of barbil. To committee substitute. Well, Well, Matt,

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  12:00
I'll tell you this. You just said that. Well, earlier, you said that no matter what we should include the language. Right? You said we should explicitly call out the language. So in every other section in this board bill, where the language is not called out, somehow now there should be an exception to that. So I don't

Matt Moak, City Councillor  12:21
I don't I don't think I said that. Mr. President, I have to say that, again, you know, I'm taking most of my cues from the Reuben brown analysis of the uses, and, and moving,

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  12:34
knowing I spoke to brown yesterday, and they said that this is in a qualified census tract. And these are the

Tishaura O. Jones, Mayor  12:43
memory. I mean,  President Reed. I'm not going to belabor this point, you have a meeting that starting in a few minutes, and we have some options. We have some options. I'm speaking, we have some options that can fit. us, me. Excuse me. You're the rolling avoider. And now I'm ending this conversation as the chair of as the Chair, I am ending this conversation automatically in the conversation when I have the floor. I mean, those are the rules that we deal with. Right? If we want to later adopt a rule that gives limited amount of time for read. I'm really just trying to move things along because you have a meeting that starts in 45 minutes, and I'm about to offer you some suggestions to remedy this. Understand there. 

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  13:33
Nothing needs to be remedied here. 

Tishaura O. Jones, Mayor  13:35
Yes, it does. 

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  13:36
Nothing needs to be remedied here. on his face. Matt Moak cannot tell me that this board bill, as it exists right now is illegal.

Tishaura O. Jones, Mayor  13:49
Matt Moak represents the entire city as the interim city councilor, and he has provided an annual with the consultation of brown that says that these funds as they are currently worded are not not meet the legal requirements of the of the current ARPA guidelines

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  14:08
Can you? Can you show me where that where they're saying? Well,

Tishaura O. Jones, Mayor  14:15
You have the memo? I'm gonna read the entire is me. Excuse me. I'm speaking. I'm going to read the entire memo. 

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  14:22
I've got the entire memo

Tishaura O. Jones, Mayor  14:23
I'm going to read it for the record. All right. That's the question that was asked about may recipients use funds for general economic development or workforce development, and the answer is generally not. Recipients must demonstrate that funding uses direct uses that funding uses directly address negative economic impact of the COVID-19 public health emergency, including funds used for economic development or workforce development, or example, job training for unemployed workers may be used to address negative economic impacts of the public health emergency and be eligible. Thus far general economic development spending is not permitted. spending on economic development related to the negative economic impacts of the pandemic is permitted. As we also discussed, ultimately, it is the manner in which the city expense the funds and not the language of the board bill itself that determines whether the city is in compliance with Treasury guidance. However, out the process of administering the funds, it is in the city's best interest to make clear that the funds will be spent in accordance with federal guidelines. And for that reason, I recommend that the board bill, any associated city policies and the contemporaneous documentation supporting the actual expenditures all explicitly document that any funds spent on economic development are specifically intended to address the negative economic impacts of the pandemic as required by the Treasury the Treasury Department guidelines so we have to take this whole opinion in its entire context. You can't just take bits and pieces out in order to to do but what we think what we needed to do. So with that said, with that said, with that said, I'm sorry, offer Ian a amendment number one to boerboel number two come committee substitute as amended by perfected on affordable housing, beginning on Page six, lines three through five and section five to strike out the words. On section five there are hereby there are hereby appropriated the sum of $5,000,600 of the 2021 Coronavirus, local fiscal recovery funds to the Affordable Housing Commission and insert there have to read in words and figures as follows section five. There are hereby appropriated the sum of 25,000,600 $600,000 of the 2021 Coronavirus, local fiscal recovery funds to the Affordable Housing Commission. Beginning on Page six lines 12 and 14 and section six, strike out the words section six there are hereby appropriated the sum of 62 million by $100,000 of the 2021 Coronavirus, local fiscal recovery funds to the St. Louis Development Corporation and insert Lu there. In lieu there have to read the following words and figures as follows section six thereby here there are hereby appropriated the sum of 42,100,000 of the 2021 Coronavirus, local fiscal recovery funds to the St. Louis Development Corporation. an amendment is there a second?

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  17:56
Madam Mayor, look, you're gonna you're gonna railroad this thing, I get it. But I was still inquiring of the city councilor. It is in poor form for this board not to allow that discussion to reach its full conclusion because every amendment and everything that you are planning is based on the premise of of legality of the board bill. And I cannot find an attorney in town. Other than yours, your city councilor, your interim city councilor. That even comes close to saying that this board bill

Tishaura O. Jones, Mayor  18:38
is like to provide those legal opinions. You said you had a legal opinion? We'd like to see it. I'm sure Matt Moke would like to see it.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  18:46
And here's the thing, I don't think Matt Moke would would, if pressed and and and if under oath. I don't think I would say the board bill is illegal because the board bill is not illegal. Everyone. I'm telling you that even that

Tishaura O. Jones, Mayor  19:01
accusation president read.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  19:04
That's the reality. That's where we're at. Because if you read through his own opinion, section 2.11, where we talk about where where he quotes, the arper facts and facts and questions. And it says that Treasury will presume presumed that certain types of services are eligible uses when provided in qualified census tracts. So my question is, is if we if if there's a business that's opening that will be what that will train people who have lost a job or who have been displaced the concept do the COVID-19 would that be eligible use but then this qualified census tract and would section six allow them And ultimately, the rules. Ultimately, what we must have are the rules on the back end of this process. And the process is defined and measured by the administration, and by the consultants that we have involved in process. We've done this very well, we just did it with all the 100, and some odd millions million dollars that we just went through, we didn't have this unusual step that we're talking about. Now, we did not target one end of the city like North St. Louis, and try to limit funds from going to a specific corridor. The federal government also says that, within certain areas that have been depressed, that have already had economic hardship, those areas will have a much longer road to recovery. And we should speak pay special attention to those areas. And that's what section six does. And I also want to make sure that we underscore and the letter from Ted Williams, where he says, while General, general economic spending is not permitted. And that's the thing that we continue to have hanging our hats on. But it says there's a common write down says spending on economic development related to negative economic impacts on the pandemic are permitted. So, um, so that's what will happen under Section six. That's the program that will be formulated and put together with the measures in place to assure that if indeed, grants are given out, those grants are given out to qualify recipients is equivalent to if we would have done a tenten cabinet. And then everyone that we give a tent from that was purchased through these funds. What was going to be a process that would be in place to say, Are you homeless? Or did you become homeless just since the code since COVID-19? Hit?

22:27
Or

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  22:29
did you just become homeless since the code since COVID-19? Because if you just became homeless, just due to COVID-19, will give you a 10. But if you were homeless prior to COVID-19, you don't get it. Right. So

Tishaura O. Jones, Mayor  22:43
But  Once again,  President Reed, you're taking things out of context, and you can make it Say what you needed to say. But again, we're offering you remedies. It's not about not investing in North St. Louis, it is about investing is it is about doing it the right way. You're just trying to play

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  23:02
or doing it the correct way.

Tishaura O. Jones, Mayor  23:05
You're not doing it the correct way. According to our attorneys, and according to our auditors, it is it is in the city's best interest. We I am speaking, I am speaking, it is in the city's best interest to make sure it is in the city's best interest the week to make sure that all of our language is explicit in the board bill before it passes. Because at the end of the day, like I told your staff yesterday, my name is on every report that goes to the federal government in my remarks about how we are extending these funds. And so it is my fiduciary responsibility as an elected official to uphold the US Constitution to make sure that we are doing this the right way.  So now there is an amendment. There is an amendment that has been offered. Is there a second? The board bill gives you the ability to do that. Board bill number two as it is currently written, according to our attorneys, and according to our

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  24:11
attorney, are you saying that struck the board failed the instruction the way it is right now will prevent the city from putting a program together that complies with federal guidelines?

Matt Moak, City Councillor  24:23
No, I'm not saying I'm saying on a four pointer.

Tishaura O. Jones, Mayor  24:28
Let him Let him finish. Louis, let him finish. No, let him finish. No. Last point. You're taking his statement out of context. Let him finish. His no finish. No. Let him finish Mary's. He has a follow up. Let him finish.

Matt Moak, City Councillor  24:48
Mr. President, I'm just saying on the four corners of the document. It is not apparent that the economic development side in Section six meets arper guidelines. I think that's very bad practice. This

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  25:00
is not. Can you sad way? I'm sorry, can you? I'm sorry, we're running short on time. But can you show me in any of the other sections where that holds true? You know, you cannot, you cannot. But, again, when I spoke to

Matt Moak, City Councillor  25:15
this earlier, I spoke to this earlier because you thought you're dying. Now my understanding is investigations been sitting down with Reuben brown for a couple months now figuring out what would be allowable under article and what hasn't. Well, that has been made its way into the board bill. So I don't have a concern about that. Well, he's been a grilling, Brown said was disallowed. And that was my starting point, honestly.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  25:42
Brown yesterday, on a call with me. They didn't say that they never said that section six was not allowed. But you know, what they say?

Tishaura O. Jones, Mayor  25:53
Did they said that they would recommend that the board bill, any associated city policies and the contemporaneous documentation, all explicitly all, explicitly document that any funds spent are specifically intended to address the negative economic impacts of the pandemic. We're not saying that we're not going to spend money in North St. Louis, we're saying that we have to document it. And all documentation, including board bills must explicitly set follow Treasury guidelines. And Treasury guidelines Lewis, the job of

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  26:33
your office, your administration to do after the passage of the bill. There's nothing in the

Tishaura O. Jones, Mayor  26:39
bill. If I have a problem with the passage of the bill, which my signature is also on. I am allowed to bring up those problems in consultation with our attorneys and our auditors. Not only are waiters simply asking you to change, just a few words to be able to do the same thing.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  27:01
My own mer mom there, again, what Ruben Brown said, in general, and they said all associated documents in general, it would be including the board bill would be the board bill, a good practice. They're not saying that the board bill is illegal or the board bill needs to be changed. Your your attorney, when given a direct question says no, the board bill is not illegal. Now, Reuben brown also says within their within their document that all associated so if we're going to say all that's every section of every document that we have, we explicitly call it out. And board member to committee substitute at the beginning of it, when we said the use of Coronavirus, local fiscal recovery funds and er a to funds must adhere to federal guidance. We say it within the bill to cover the entirety of the bill, which is why it is in the sections, which is what we did the first time, which would set a bar to ensure that when the administration picked it up, they would put things in place appropriately.

Tishaura O. Jones, Mayor  28:25
So we're going to be left to clean it up that what you're saying we're gonna be left to clean it up. Is that what you're saying? Wait a minute, when it gets to the administration. That's what you know, no matter. Sure,

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  28:39
no matter what, ultimately, like Ruben Brown said, ultimately, it is a matter it is the manner in which the city expands the funds so

Tishaura O. Jones, Mayor  28:51
fast and all that it says that all arguments have to explicitly say, here's a

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  29:01
question. Are you worried that your administration or anybody within your organization will misappropriate these funds?

Tishaura O. Jones, Mayor  29:12
I am simply trying to make sure Excuse me, excuse me, I am speaking. I am speaking I'm trying to answer your question president re excuse. I am simply trying to answer your question without you interrupting me. Okay. Again, I am saying that the that we should make sure that all that the board bill, any associated city policies, and all documentation of expenditures explicitly document that the funds spent on economic development are specifically intended to address the negative impacts of the past. Damnit, yes, moradores as they are currently stated, the orders, as they, as they are currently stated, are outside of Treasury guidelines. Again, we are again, I'm speaking, nobody speaking. I am speaking your attorney as I'm speaking. Thank you. I am simply saying that we should make sure that if that when we make when we invest funds in North St. Louis, and parts of South St. Louis, that we should do that we should make sure that the board bill that is passed, passes legal muster by our accountants and by our attorneys. Um, 

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  30:43
I don't understand why you're having such a problem sending money to North St. Louis to 

Tishaura O. Jones, Mayor  30:48
I'm not saying that you're trying to put words in my mouth president. I never said that. I never said that. I never said that. I never said that. Not I never said that, for these crimes. Last time I checked, I was born raised and still live in North St. Louis. I never said that.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  31:07
That's what it appears to be because no other section has the work. 

Tishaura O. Jones, Mayor  31:11
You're making assumptions. This you're making assumptions. 

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  31:15
This is the only assumption. But also, I also wanted to make sure to remind you all that we call out we say the use of Corona Coronavirus, local fisto recovery fronds and era to fonds must adhere to federal GAAP guidance that has been and will be issued. On the use of our performance. We say that we say that, which is why it's not every section. But the only section you guys decided to to attack was the section that sends money directly to affected core doors in North St. Louis that are clearly in qualified census tracts and had it not been for them those qualified census tracts and the conditions and the concentrated poverty that exists within these qualified census tracts. We wouldn't have the half a billion dollars that's coming to the city because it was the CDA formula that determine that and the CDA formula was based largely on the things I just outlined that exists within those qualified census tracts. The board bill is not illegal. That's absolutely clear. The letter from Reuben were in brown that says as we as we also discussed, ultimately, it is a manner in Islam, it is the manner in which the city expands the funds and not the language in the board bill. But then he goes on to say, but it is a good practice to explicitly call that out. And then I go back to the board bill, and I say, Okay. The use of Coronavirus, local recovery funds and era to funds must adhere to federal guidance and has been has been and will be issued on the use of ARPA funds. It's been done. Your attorney, your attorney is clear that that the board bill itself as it stands is is not illegal. What he said was Reuben, he pointed to Reuben browns. Another another document of something that we did not have access to that he says the room Brown says non compliant or something like that. Ruin Brown. Brown goes on the same, as said clearly to us, and the question was posed to Ruben Brown. So if we expand funds to on a business that's that is going to retrain and repurpose people who have lost a job or been to displace maybe even living in a tent and cabinet and get them back in the job and get them job ready and back in job force or put them directly in job. Is that an acceptable use? He said? Absolutely. Is there anything that makes this document illegal? Absolutely not. But it's a good practice to call it out and every single section and I say we have board bill number 82, sitting before the Board of Aldermen right now and as been stated by your office and others, it is important to get this money out to people. The fastest quickest way to get this money out to people is for you to vote to adopt this right now. No other changes has to happen at the board. The board bill has already been been perfected 27 to one. So super majority of the members of the board spent America Session 12 hours reviewing this bill, putting in things, making sure that it was compliant, which it it is. And now today we're we're third read final passage, I will sign it, I have also put an emergency clause in it, it will come directly over your office, and you can sign and then we can get this money out to people who are hurting right now. We have board bill number 82, sitting right now in committee. So any additional policies or methodologies that we want to apply by saying instead of having it at the top of the board bill, that affort refers to every section, we will put it in every section of the board bill. I will agree to do that. So on board bill number 82. When we go the crop when we go to putting it together, and calling it out every section, we will lead the section with that language that I read to you that led the entire board bill number two, again, any changes to this board bill right now? any amendments to this board bill right now, I want to be clear that it will delay the the relief money getting out to people to the city of St. Louis. It serves no purpose at all whatsoever. Because the programming unless the administration feels like the something's going to happen within their administration, where they will not assemble the program in the appropriate manner. I just I see no need for change. And I'm not willing to change anything in the bill. The bill was legal. Even your attorney today said no, it No it is not. It is not illegal. it's legal. So I'm Ruben brown doesn't come out and say the board bill isn't isn't legal. The Treasury Department says that it presumes that certain types of services are qualified, are eligible uses when provided in qualified census track. Every place within section six is qualified census track. But I'm still just perplexed that we keep talking about section six when no other section within the bill holds the language that you're talking about that that is being brought forward. So you know, uh, you know, I'm gonna move again, that we adopt board bill number two committee substitute as amended, as presented from the 27 members of board along with the 27 people at the board moment that have worked tirelessly to get this board bill before you so that we can be bring Direct Relief to the people in the city of St. Louis and do it right now. You know, people are people are suffering. This is something that should be very easy. This should have been a five minute meeting. So again, I move that we adopt board bill number two to committee substitute as amended. And any additional things that we want to do, let's talk about them and board Bill 82. There is nothing illegal about burrillville. Today that's clear from this meeting. And I think it would be poor mass is just in poor form to to further delay this thing because what here's what happens if there just so that we're clear on what happens if there are any changes to this board bill that has been perfected. That border bill will automatically when I go to the border Robin airport bill lands on informal count there. And I'm the board of alderman would have to determine when and if it would come back to address anything in that changes. But what that means is that funding for people throughout the city needed services for people throughout the city are being delayed and put on hold because of I don't even know how to classify it because it is not a legal issue is not a clerical issue. It is not a legislative issue. It's something that comes in the 12th hour that says moving forward, this would be a best practice to implement. Thank you again. board bill, where we call it out the use of Coronavirus, local recovery funds and era to funds must adhere to federal guidelines that have that has been and will be issued for the use of carpha funds. So we've done our work, the board bill is legal. And I move that we adopt board bill number two committee substitute as amended. And I also want to point out that I believe is best practices to feed the people in the city of St. Louis, I think is best practices to assure that people families that are hurting across the city of St. Louis, have the resources and the relief they need. also believe that as best practices to to assure that areas of our city who are going to sit who are suffering harder, who will suffer longer. We see the resources that they need areas of the city that because of the concentrated the historic concentrated poverty, because of the fact that the they've had higher rates of affection through due to color Coronavirus. They've had lower immunization rates in these areas. I think that those areas deserve the seaboard bill number to pass. I think those areas deserve to see the funding. Go to those areas. I think that the small businesses that will benefit from grants within this board bill deserve to see this board bill adopted. I think that the families that will receive the $500 deserve to see this board bill passed and adopted by this body. I think that the housing the people who have been displaced from their housing, I think they deserve to see this board, they'll pass I think the people who are waiting for funds for for rental assistance, mortgage assistance and utility assistance. I was talking to a guy yesterday and he said, Look, my utility bills are through the roof. And I don't have any way to pay them. I've been out of work and this and that. And he said it's just piling up. So I gave him the information of the of how and who to contact to get some relief. He and his family deserve the relief does in this package. So again, I'm asking for this committee the board of VNA to do the right thing, I'm asking for you to stand up for the people and city of St. Louis, put politics or anything else aside right now. I mean, this thing is bigger than everybody here. And I'm asking you to do the right thing. I'm asking you to adopt board bill number two, so that we can get these needed funds out the door and feed our people and provide them the relief they need. I'm also reminding you that for Bill number 82 is sitting for billing number 82 is in the HUDs committee right now. Or bill number 82. I recommend that we all have alone, I recommend that that we all work collectively to assure that all the component pieces and any any desire things beyond just required things any of these other desired things are also accounted for. So again, I move that we adopt board bill number two committee substitute as amended.

Tishaura O. Jones, Mayor  44:23
As read, I'm not offering a second but I will say this.  You've made numerous attempts. work with you to bring this bill compliance with Treasury guidelines and Treasury rules. We have an opinion from the city councilor on the corridor language. We have sldc we have Ruben Brown. We don't fix fix it then the money is isn't legally expended and the money gets to his to where we want it to go. There's nothing here. In fact, excuse me, I'm speaking I'm speaking but the so now I'm speaking I'm speaking. Thank you, please. We are investing in Northland. Lewis in a way that is compliant with federal guidelines, so people get the money they urgently need. So we can work on development as soon as possible. So it's this is it's then we have tried to we have attempted to work with you go, No, you know, you had you waited to the last minute. We tried to work with you.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  45:22
It does not look just so we're clear. I'm not. I don't have that baby. I don't really care whether people worry. What I do care about is that we move these things that are important in expeditious manner. I told I made a commitment when we pick this thing up. And the clock was ticking like when when we were handed the ball, I said we will be we will get this thing out of the Board of Aldermen in record time. And we will have it out by the 16th. Today is the 16th. We've done our part. We've done 12. America's longest Board of Aldermen meeting in the history of the city, a 12 hour straight through no break boredom all in the meeting to assure that we got this thing done. But in the timeframe, we said we were going to get it done. We held extra meetings and everything to assure that we expedited it and met our charter responsibilities and our chart and our chart charter requirements for passing a board bill. We've done all that we checked all the boxes, we also put in front of you a legal qualified board bill, and anyone that says that it is not a legal board bill, they know they're on shaky footing. That's why your attorney even said himself that the board bill is not illegal. He said now. Now, Reuben brown spoke to them yesterday, we had a conference call me and multiple other. And we posed various different questions to him and asked him and he was absolutely clear, even chuckled a little bit when we talked about the board bill being illegal or not legal. And that's why he says as we discussed, ultimately, it is the manner in which the city expends the funds and not the board bill that determines whether the city is in compliance with the Treasury Department guidelines, guidelines that are still being developed and changed and altered. So if we put something in this board bill based on the preliminary guidelines, and if we locked it in and said based on these preliminary guidelines without without giving y'all any flexible flexibility to build out a program that is compliant with reporting with auditing and everything else put into it, which is why we put $900,000 into a pot to allow you all the funding to assure that so there's nearly a million dollars put in place so that you can do all of those things. There's nothing in this board bill that that causes you not to be able to do your job. So the people deserve a an opportunity for for some support. And a failure of a second for adoption of this board deal is a failure of this board in supporting the community at large. So I'm gonna continue to ask you all to beg you to plead with your whatever it takes to do the right thing today. And support board bill number two, as it stands, a board bill that's compliant. A board bill that no matter what board bill we pass will not relieve your office, and all the other city departments from doing their job to assure compliance. When any business gets a grant from the city of St. Louis, there's various different checkboxes that they have to meet. There's lots of this board bill does kind of prevent that from happen. When any homeowner gets a grant, or gets home improvement funds or anything related to this. They're boxes that they have to check. And there's nothing in this board bill that prevents that. That comes on the compliance and the development piece that will be developed by by you, your office to consolidate agencies that they they engage with That's part of what they do. And the controller will only distribute those checks if indeed that compliance exists. So there's nothing in this board bill that prevents or or slows down or stops that compliance from happening.

Tishaura O. Jones, Mayor  50:23
was the case if that was the case, you would have received a second seen as though you have not gotten to in this debate, and

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  50:33
that we adopt board building number two committee substitute as amended. And I'm really asking that this committee does the right thing. The people are sitting on deserve to see these funds on the streets. This board bill is I'm gonna move with any additional changes to it. And that would be a sad thing. A lot of ungodly amount of hours have been spent thus far to get us right here. And I'm the board bill has already been perfected before the board involvement well, more than a supermajority of the members of board. The only thing that has to happen, let's be clear. The only thing that has the only thing to stand on between people of the city of St. Louis getting relief from COVID-19. Getting the resources they need put in place or not. Is the board of VNA right now? For a long time we've done our job. We're prepared to do it here in six minutes. Once this committee adopts board bill number two, and again, I'm gonna call it out call it

Tishaura O. Jones, Mayor  51:58
president re may ask your question.

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  52:01
We're in Section six is the only section that

Tishaura O. Jones, Mayor  52:05
actually not the only section but match your call. Please. Are you willing to call a special meeting of the Board to fix the issues that we have as brought up to here

Lewis Reed, President Board of Alderman  52:16
there aren't there aren't any issues in the board bill? So So no, there aren't any issues

Tishaura O. Jones, Mayor  52:22
obviously there are if you if you're not receiving a second from myself or the control, there's something else at play here. This is this is equivalent to When else at play we've explained to you through through this is no brown browns. And yes, they are legal. Today no second. This meeting is adjourned.
